Five Questions to Ask Before You Invest
Whether you’re a first-time investor or have been investing for many years, there are some basic questions you should always ask before you commit your hard-earned money to an investment.

Question 1: Is the seller licensed?
Research shows that con-artists are experts at the art of persuasion, often using a variety of influence tactics tailored to the vulnerabilities of their victims. Smart investors check the background of anyone promoting an investment opportunity, even before learning about opportunity itself.

Researching brokers: Details on a broker’s background and qualifications are available for free on FINRA’s BrokerCheck website.
Researching investment advisers: The Investment Adviser Public Disclosure website provides information about investment adviser firms registered with the SEC and most state-registered investment adviser firms.
Researching SEC actions: The SEC Action Lookup - Individuals allows you to look up information about certain individuals who have been named as defendants in SEC federal court actions or respondents in SEC administrative proceedings.
If you are not sure who to contact or have any questions regarding checking the background of an investment professional, call the SEC’s toll-free investor assistance line at (800) 732-0330.

Question 2: Is the investment registered?
Any offer or sale of securities must be registered with the SEC or exempt from registration. Registration is important because it provides investors with access to key information about the company's management, products, services, and finances.

Smart investors always check whether an investment is registered with the SEC by using the SEC’s EDGAR database or contacting the SEC’s toll-free investor assistance line at (800) 732-0330.

Question 3: How do the risks compare with the potential rewards?
The potential for greater returns comes with greater risk. Understanding this crucial trade-off between risk and reward can help you separate legitimate opportunities from unlawful schemes.

Investments with greater risk may offer higher potential returns, but they may expose you to greater investment losses. Keep in mind every investment carries some degree of risk and no legitimate investment offers the best of both worlds.

Many investment frauds are pitched as high return opportunities with little or no risk. Ignore these so-called opportunities or, better yet, report them to the SEC.

Question 4: Do you understand the investment?
Many successful investors follow this rule of thumb: Never invest in something you don’t understand. Be sure to always read an investment’s prospectus or disclosure statement carefully. If you can’t understand the investment and how it will help you make money, ask a trusted financial professional for help. If you are still confused, you should think twice about investing.

Question 5: Where can you turn for help?
Whether checking out an investment professional, researching an investment, or learning about new products or scams, unbiased information can be a great advantage when it comes to investing wisely. Make a habit of using the information and tools on securities regulators’ websites. If you have a question or concern about an investment, please contact the SEC, FINRA, or your state securities regulator for help.


Understanding Fees
As with anything you buy, there are fees and costs associated with investment products and services. These fees may seem small, but over time they can have a major impact on your investment portfolio. Understanding the fees you pay is important to investing wisely.

The following chart shows an investment portfolio with a 4% annual return over 20 years when the investment either has an ongoing fee of 0.25%, 0.50% or 1%.

Change of portfolio value over 20 years
 

The best advice we can give you about understanding fees and investing wisely is to ask questions. For example:

What are the total fees to purchase, maintain, and sell this investment?
Are there ways that I can reduce or avoid some of the fees I’ll pay, such as by purchasing the investment directly?
How much does this investment have to increase in value before I break even?
What are the ongoing fees to maintain my account?
For mutual funds: How much will the fund charge me when I buy and/or sell shares?
For the investment professional: How do you get paid? By commission? By the amount of assets you manage? By another method? Do I have any choice on how to pay you? Should I pay you by the transaction, or pay a flat fee regardless of how many transactions I have?


Investment Products
Investor Bulletin: Mutual Fund Fees and Expenses
Updated Investor Bulletin: How Fees and Expenses Affect Your Investment Portfolio
Investor Bulletin: Mutual Fund Classes
FINRA's Fund Analyzer (link is external)
Investment Services
Investor Bulletin: Brokers' Miscellaneous Fees
Investor Bulletin: Opening An Investment Advisory Account

Common Fee Types
Mutual Fund Fees and Expenses
12b-1 Fees
Distribution Fees
Sales Charge (Or Load)
Redemption Fee
Exchange Fee
Account Fee
Purchase Fee
Management Fee
Shareholder Service Fees
Total Annual Fund Operating Expense

Investor Bulletin: Mutual Fund Fees and Expenses
May 12, 2014
The SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Advocacy is issuing this Investor Bulletin to explain some of the most common mutual fund fees and expenses. As a general introduction to mutual fund fees and expenses, this Investor Bulletin does not identify all of the fees that you may pay to buy and own shares in a mutual fund. This Investor Bulletin will, however, familiarize you with some typical mutual fund fees and expenses and show you how those fees and expenses reduce the value of your fund’s investment return.

As with any business, it costs money to run a mutual fund. There are certain costs associated with an investor’s transactions (such as buying, selling, or exchanging mutual fund shares), which are commonly known as “shareholder fees,” and ongoing fund operating costs (such as investment advisory fees for managing the fund’s holdings, and marketing and distribution expenses, as well as custodial, transfer agency, legal, accounting, and other administrative expenses). Although these fees and expenses may not be listed individually as specific line items on your account statement, they can have a substantial impact on your investment over time.

The Impact of Mutual  Fund Fees and Expenses on Your Investment Portfolio
Fees and expenses vary from fund to fund and the amount you pay may depend on the fund's investment strategy. A fund with high costs must perform better than a low-cost fund to generate the same returns for you. Even small differences in fees from one fund to another can add up to substantial differences in your investment returns over time, as the graph below shows.

Portfolio Value From Investing $100,000 Over 20 Years

The Impact of Mutual  Fund Fees and Expenses on Your Investment Portfolio
The graph above shows how mutual fund fees and expenses can affect your mutual fund investment portfolio. The graph illustrates the effect of fees and expenses in three hypothetical scenarios, as represented by the blue, red, and green lines.

The blue line represents the investment portfolio of a hypothetical mutual fund that does not charge shareholder fees and that produced a 4% annual return over 20 years and had annual operating expenses of 0.25% (i.e., $25 for every $10,000 invested) during that period. If you invested $100,000 in this fund, then after 20 years your investment portfolio would be worth approximately $208,000.
The red line represents the investment portfolio of a hypothetical mutual fund that does not charge shareholder fees and that produced a 4% return over 20 years and had annual operating expenses of 0.50% (i.e., $50 for every $10,000 invested) during that period. If you invested $100,000 in this fund, then after 20 years your investment portfolio would be worth approximately $198,000. The fees and expenses would have consumed about $10,000 more of your investment portfolio over that time, compared to the hypothetical mutual fund with annual operating expenses of 0.25%.
The green line represents the investment portfolio of a mutual fund that does not charge shareholder fees and that produced a 4% return over 20 years and had annual operating expenses of 1.00% (i.e., $100 for every $10,000 invested) during that period. If you invested $100,000 in this fund, then after 20 years your investment portfolio would be worth approximately $179,000. The fees and expenses would have consumed nearly $30,000 more of your investment portfolio over that time, compared to the hypothetical mutual fund with annual operating expenses of 0.25%.
The more you pay in fees and expenses, the less money you will have in your investment portfolio. And these fees and expenses really add up over time. Given the compounding effect of fund fees and expenses and their impact on your investment returns, you may want to use a mutual fund cost calculator to compute how the costs of different mutual funds would add up over time.

Shareholder Fees and Annual Operating Expenses Generally
Some funds may cover the costs associated with your transactions and your account by imposing fees and charges directly on you at the time of the transactions (or periodically with respect to account fees). You can find these fees and charges listed in a standardized fee table located near the front of a fund’s prospectus, under the heading “Shareholder Fees” (described below).

In addition, funds typically pay their regular and recurring fund-wide operating expenses out of fund assets, instead of imposing these fees and charges directly on you. Because these expenses are paid out of fund assets, you are paying them indirectly. These expenses are identified in the standardized fee table in the fund’s prospectus under the heading “Annual Fund Operating Expenses” (described below).

It is important to understand that mutual funds do not impose these fees and expenses arbitrarily. Rather, the fund’s board of directors is responsible for overseeing the fund’s operations and management. The fund’s directors, and its independent directors, in particular, function as “watchdogs” who are supposed to look out for the interests of the fund’s shareholders. One of the most significant responsibilities of a fund’s board of directors is to negotiate and review the advisory contract between the fund and the investment adviser to the fund, including fees and expense ratios.

But even though these fees and expenses may be entirely appropriate based on the fund’s operations, these costs may be higher than what you might be willing to pay—so be sure to comparison shop and decide whether a similar fund with lower expenses would make better sense for you. Remember, the more you pay in fees and expenses, the less money you will have in your investment portfolio.

Before investing in a mutual fund, you should read the fund’s prospectus carefully. Some funds provide a “summary prospectus” that includes information on how you can obtain a full-length prospectus, while other funds may deliver a full-length prospectus only. If you are purchasing a mutual fund through a financial professional, ask that person to explain all the charges that may apply to your investment in the fund.

Mutual Fund Table
A mutual fund is required to disclose its shareholder fees and operating expenses in the form of a standardized fee table in its prospectus.

In the fee table, under the heading of “Shareholder Fees,” you will find some or all of the following items:

Shareholder Fees
In the fee table, under the heading of “Annual Fund Operating Expenses,” you will find some or all of the following items:

Annual Fund Operating Expenses
Below is a discussion of shareholder fees and annual fund operating expenses. For a description of other fees and expenses associated with investing in mutual funds, see our Investor Bulletin: How Fees and Expenses Affect Your Investment Portfolio

Shareholder Fees
In this section, we discuss those items that you will find under the heading of “Shareholder Fees” in the fee table.

Sales Loads

Funds that use brokers to sell their shares compensate the brokers. Funds may do this by imposing a fee on investors, known generally as a “sales load” (or “sales charge (load)”), which is paid to the selling brokers. In this respect, a sales load is like a commission you pay when you purchase any type of security from a broker.

While the SEC does not limit the amount of sales load a fund may charge, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) does not permit mutual fund sales loads to exceed 8.5%. The percentage is lower if a fund imposes other types of charges.

There are two general types of sales loads—a front-end sales load that you pay when you purchase fund shares and a back-end or deferred sales load that you may pay when you redeem your shares. When purchasing fund shares, you may or may not have a choice of whether to pay a front-end sales load, a back-end sales load, or some other deferred sales load, depending on the fund.

Sales Charge (Load) on Purchases

The category “Sales Charge (Load) on Purchases” in the fee table includes sales loads that you might pay when you purchase fund shares (also known as “front-end sales loads”). Typically, a mutual fund calculates the amount of front-end sales load based on a percentage of the sales price. The key point to keep in mind about a front-end sales load is that it reduces—right off the top—the amount of money that you have available to purchase fund shares (as described in the example below).

Front-End Sales Load
For example, if you write a $10,000 check to a fund to purchase fund shares, and the fund has a 5% front-end sales load, the total amount of the sales load will be $500. The $500 sales load is deducted from your $10,000 check (and typically paid to a selling broker), and assuming there are no other front-end fees, the remaining $9,500 is used to purchase your fund shares.

Sometimes, funds offer discounts for larger investment amounts—usually called “breakpoint discounts”—in which the sales load is reduced if more than a certain amount of money is invested.

Deferred Sales Charge (Load)

The category “Deferred Sales Charge (Load)” in the fee table refers to a sales load that you might pay when you redeem fund shares (that is, sell your shares back to the fund). You may also see this referred to as a “deferred” or “back-end” sales load. When you purchase shares that have a back-end sales load instead of a front-end sales load, no sales load is deducted at the time of your purchase, so all of your money is used immediately to purchase fund shares (assuming that no other fees or charges apply at the time of purchase).

Back-End Sales Load
For example, if you invest $10,000 in a fund with a 5% back-end sales load, and if there are no other “purchase fees,” the entire $10,000 will be used to purchase fund shares, and the 5% sales load is not deducted until you redeem your shares, at which point the fee is deducted from the redemption proceeds.

Typically, a fund calculates the amount of a back-end sales load based on the lesser of the value of the shareholder’s initial investment or the value of the shareholder’s investment at redemption. For example, if you initially invest $10,000, and at redemption the investment has appreciated to $12,000, a back-end sales load calculated in this manner would be based on the value of your initial investment— $10,000—not on the value of the investment at redemption. Similarly, if you initially invest $10,000, and at redemption the investment has declined in value to $8,000, a back-end sales load calculated in this manner would be based on the value of the investment at redemption—$8,000—not on the value of your initial investment in this example. You should read a fund’s prospectus carefully to determine whether the fund calculates its back-end sales load in this manner.

The most common type of back-end sales load is the “contingent deferred sales load,” also referred to as a “CDSC,” or “CDSL.” The amount of this type of load will depend on how long you hold your shares and may gradually decline to zero if you hold your shares long enough. For example, a contingent deferred sales load might be 5% if you hold your shares for less than one year, 4% if you hold your shares for one to two years, and so on until the load goes away completely. The rate at which this fee will decline will be disclosed in the fund’s prospectus.

A fund or class with a contingent deferred sales load typically will also have an annual 12b-1 fee (described below).

No-Load Funds
Some funds identify themselves as “no-load” funds. As the name implies, a no-load fund does not charge any type of sales load. But no-load does not mean no fees. As described above, not every type of shareholder fee is a “sales load,” and a no-load fund may charge fees that are not sales loads. For example, a no-load fund is permitted to charge purchase fees, redemption fees, exchange fees, and account fees, none of which is considered to be a “sales load.” It is important to know exactly what fees and charges you will be paying, even for no-load funds.

Redemption Fee

A redemption fee is another type of fee that some funds may charge you when you redeem your shares. Typically, a fund expresses the redemption fee as a percentage of the redemption price. Although a fund may deduct a redemption fee from redemption proceeds just like a deferred sales load, a redemption fee is not considered to be a sales load. Unlike a sales load, which is used to pay brokers, a fund typically imposes a redemption fee to defray fund costs associated with a shareholder’s redemption and that fee is paid directly to the fund, not to a broker. The SEC limits redemption fees to 2.00%.

Exchange Fee

An exchange fee is a fee that some funds may impose on you if you exchange (transfer) your shares in one fund for shares of another fund within the same fund group.

Account Fee

An account fee is a separate fee that some funds may impose on you in connection with the maintenance of your accounts. For example, some funds impose an account maintenance fee on accounts valued at less than a certain dollar amount (for example, on accounts valued at less than $10,000).

Purchase Fee

A purchase fee is a type of fee that some funds may charge when you purchase their shares. A purchase fee differs from, and is not considered to be, a front-end sales load because a purchase fee is paid to the fund (not to a broker) and is typically imposed to defray some of the fund’s costs associated with the purchase.

Annual Fund Operating Expenses
In this section, we discuss those items that you will find under the heading of “Annual Fund Operating Expenses” in the fee table.

Management Fees

Management fees are fees that are paid out of fund assets to the fund’s investment adviser (or its affiliates) for managing the fund’s investment portfolio, and administrative fees payable to the investment adviser that are not included in the “Other Expenses” category (discussed below).

Distribution [and/or Service] (12b-1) Fees and 12b-1 Plans

This category identifies so-called “12b-1 fees,” which are fees paid by the fund out of fund assets to cover distribution expenses and sometimes shareholder service expenses. These “12b-1 fees” get their name from the SEC rule that authorizes a fund to pay them. The rule permits a fund to pay distribution fees out of fund assets only if the fund has adopted a plan (12b-1 plan) authorizing their payment.

“Distribution fees” include fees paid for marketing and selling fund shares, such as compensating brokers and others who sell fund shares, and paying for advertising, the printing and mailing of prospectuses to new investors, and the printing and mailing of sales literature. The SEC does not limit the amount of 12b-1 fees that funds may pay. Under FINRA rules, however, 12b-1 fees that are used to pay marketing and distribution expenses (as opposed to shareholder service expenses) cannot exceed 0.75% of a fund’s average net assets per year.

Some 12b-1 plans also authorize and include “shareholder service fees,” which are fees paid to persons to respond to investor inquiries and provide investors with information about their investments. A fund may pay shareholder service fees without adopting a 12b-1 plan. If shareholder service fees are part of a fund’s 12b-1 plan, these fees will be included in the “Shareholder Fees” category of the fee table. If shareholder service fees are paid outside a 12b-1 plan, then they will be included in the “Other Expenses” category, discussed below. FINRA imposes an annual 0.25% cap on shareholder service fees (regardless of whether these fees are authorized as part of a 12b-1 plan).

Other Expenses

Included in this category are expenses not included in the categories “Management Fees” or “Distribution [and/or Service] (12b-1) Fees.” Examples include: certain shareholder service expenses; custodial expenses; legal expenses; accounting expenses; transfer agent expenses; and other administrative expenses.

Total Annual Fund Operating Expenses (or “Fund’s Expense Ratio”)

This line of the fee table represents the total of a fund’s annual fund operating expenses, expressed as a percentage of the fund’s average net assets.

No-Expense or Zero-Expense Funds
Some funds call themselves “no-expense” or “zero-expense” funds or emphasize their low expense ratios without mentioning other costs investors pay—either directly or indirectly— when investing in the fund.

For example, the fee table in a fund’s prospectus may show no fees for sales or distribution because others, including affiliates of the fund’s investment adviser, may instead be collecting fees for those services. An investor in such a fund may pay these as separate investment fees, such as commissions paid to a broker for the purchase of fund shares or fees paid to an adviser based on a percentage of assets in a wrap fee program.

Also, there may be other costs investors pay indirectly that are not included in the fund’s expense ratio, such as costs associated with the fund’s securities lending activities or transaction costs that the fund pays when it buys and sells its underlying securities.

These additional costs and expenses can reduce the value of your investment.

Updated Investor Bulletin: How Fees and Expenses Affect Your Investment Portfolio
June 26, 2019
The SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Advocacy is issuing this updated bulletin to educate investors about how fees you pay for investment services and products can impact the value of your portfolio.     

As with anything you buy, there are fees and costs associated with investment products and services.  These fees may seem small, but over time they can have a major impact on your investment portfolio.  The following chart shows an investment portfolio with a 4% annual return over 20 years when the investment either has an ongoing fee of 0.25%, 0.50% or 1%.   Notice how the fees affect the investment portfolio over 20 years.

Image
The chart below highlights the portfolio value from investing $100,000 Over 20 Years. In 20 years a 0.50% annual fees reduce the portfolio  by$ 10,000 compared to a portfolio with a 0.25% annual fee. In 20 years, 1.00% annual fees reduce the portfolio by nearly $30,000, compared to a portfolio with a 0.25% annual fee.  The top blue line is a 4% annual return less 0.25% annual fee.  The middle red line is a 4% annual return less 0.50% annual fee. The bottom green line a 4% annual return less 1.00% annual fee
Along with the other factors you think about when choosing either an investment professional or a particular investment, be sure you understand and compare the fees you’ll be charged.  It could save you a lot of money in the long run. 

How do I know what I’m being charged?
Get informed.  Find out what you may be charged by reading what your investment professional provides you.  For example, look at your account opening documents, account statements, confirmations and any product-specific documents to see the types and amount of fees you are paying.  Fees impact your investment, so it’s important you understand them.
Ask questions so that you understand what you will be charged, when and why.  Questions might include:
What are all the fees relating to this account that I will be charged directly or indirectly? Do you have a fee schedule that lists all of the fees that will be charged for investments and maintenance of this account?
What fees will I pay to purchase, hold and sell this investment?  Will those fees appear clearly on my account statement or my confirmation?  If not, how will I know about them?
How can I reduce or eliminate some of the fees I’ll pay?  For example, can I buy the investment directly without paying an investment professional?  Can I pay lower fees if I open a different type of account?
Do I need to keep a minimum account balance to avoid certain fees?
Are there any other transaction or advisory fees?  Account transfer, account inactivity, wire transfer fees or any other fees?
How do the fees and expenses of the product compare to other products that can help me meet my objectives? 
Does the product have more than one share class?  If so, how do the fees compare across share classes?  What is the overall lowest cost share class available and how do I qualify for that share class? 
How much does the investment have to increase in value before I break even?
Ask questions about your investment professional’s compensation.  Questions might include:
How do you get paid?  By commission?  How are commissions determined?  Do they vary depending on the amount of assets you manage?  
Do you get paid through means other than through commissions and amount of assets you manage and, if yes, how?  
Do I have any choice on how to pay you?
Check your statements.  Review confirmation and account statements to be sure you’re being charged correctly and ask your investment professional to break the fees down for you if it’s unclear.
What types of fees are there?
Fees typically come in two types—transaction fees and ongoing fees.  Transaction fees are charged each time you enter into a transaction, for example, when you buy a stock or mutual fund.  In contrast, ongoing fees or expenses are charges you incur regularly, such as an annual account maintenance fee. 

How do transaction fees affect your investment portfolio?

Transaction fees are charged at the time you buy, sell or exchange an investment.  As with any fee, transaction fees will reduce the overall amount of your investment portfolio. 

How do ongoing fees affect your investment portfolio?

Ongoing fees also reduce the value of your investment portfolio.  This is particularly true over time, because not only is your investment balance reduced by the fee, but you also lose any return you would have earned on that fee.  Over time, even ongoing fees that are small can have a big impact on your investment portfolio.  The chart above illustrates the effect of different ongoing fees on a $100,000 investment portfolio with a 4% annual return over 20 years. 

The chart below illustrates the impact of a 1% ongoing fee on a $100,000 investment portfolio that grows 4% annually over 20 years.  As the investment portfolio grows over time, so does the total amount of fees you pay.  Because of the fees you pay, you have a smaller amount invested that is earning a return. 

Image
OngoingFeesover20years
What is an example of a transaction fee?
Commissions.  You will likely pay a commission when you buy or sell a stock through an investment professional.  The commission compensates the investment professional and his or her firm when it is acting as agent for you in your securities transaction.  

Markups. When a broker-dealer sells to you directly securities it holds, the broker-dealer acts as a principal in the transaction.  When acting as a principal the broker-dealer generally will be compensated by selling the security to you at a price that is higher than the market price (the difference is called a markup), or by buying the security from you at a price that is lower than the market price (the difference is called a markdown).

Sales loads.  Some mutual funds charge a fee called a sales load.  Sales loads serve a similar purpose to commissions by compensating the investment professional for selling the mutual fund to you.  Sales loads can be front-end in that they are assessed at the time you make your investment or back-end in that you are assessed the charge if you sell the mutual fund usually within a specified timeframe. 

Surrender charges.  Early withdrawal from a variable annuity investment (typically within six to eight years, but sometimes as long as 10 years) will usually result in a surrender charge.  This charge compensates your investment professional for selling the variable annuity to you.  Generally, the surrender charge is a percentage of the amount withdrawn, and declines gradually over a period of several years.

What is an example of an ongoing fee?
Investment advisory fees.  If you use an investment adviser to manage your investment portfolio, your adviser may charge you an ongoing annual fee based on the value of your portfolio. 

Annual operating expenses.  Mutual funds and exchange-traded funds, or ETFs, are essentially investment products created and managed by investment professionals.  The management and marketing of these investment products result in expenses and costs that are often passed on to you—the investor—in the form of fees deducted from the fund’s assets.  These annual ongoing fees can include management fees, 12b-1 or distribution (and/or service) fees, and other expenses.  These fees are often identified as a percentage of the fund’s assets—the fund’s expense ratio (identified in the fund’s prospectus as the total annual fund operating expenses).   

401(k) fees.  The expenses for operating and administering 401(k) plans may be passed along to its participants.  This is in addition to the annual operating expenses of the mutual fund investments that you may hold in your plan.

Annual variable annuity fees.  If you invest in a variable annuity, you may be charged fees to cover the expenses of administering the variable annuity.  You also may pay fees such as insurance fees and fees for optional features (often called riders).  You will also be subject to the annual operating expenses of any mutual funds or other investments that the variable annuity holds.  

What are some examples of products with combined transaction and ongoing fees?
Some investment products or services, including mutual funds, ETFs and variable annuities, commonly include both transaction and ongoing fees as part of the structure of the product or service.  You can use the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (FINRA)’s Fund Analyzer to compare the cost of various types of securities, including mutual funds and ETFs.

What other fees might I pay?
In addition to commissions, a broker-dealer may also charge certain additional fees such as fees for not maintaining a minimum balance, account maintenance, account transfer, account inactivity, wire transfer or other fees.  These fees may not always be obvious to you from your account statement or confirmation statement.  You should obtain information about all the fees you are charged and why they are charged.  Ask your broker-dealer to explain the fees if you do not understand them. 

SEC Enforcement Actions.  The SEC routinely brings enforcement actions involving fees and costs incurred by investors.  Here are some examples of cases the SEC has settled:

SEC Share Class Initiative Returning More Than $125 Million to Investors
SEC Charges San Jose Investment Adviser for Overcharging Fees
SEC Charges Beverly Hills Investment Adviser for Improper Fees and False Filings
SEC Charges Fort Myers, Florida-Based Investment Adviser and Manager in Fraudulent Fee-Siphoning Scheme
 

What can I do if I think my fees are too high?
Follow up.  If your fees seem too high, ask questions.  Consider following up in writing if you are not satisfied.
Negotiate.  In some cases, fees are negotiable, so you can talk to your investment professional about reducing them. 
Shop around before you invest.  Just like shopping around for the best price on any other product or service, you should consider how much you are paying for investing services.  However, to the extent you decide to move to a new firm, you should think about any tax consequences and fees for closing or transferring your account, for example, if you have to sell some or all of your current holdings in order to transfer. 
 
Check the background and registration status of anyone recommending or selling an investment by using the SEC’s Investment Adviser Public Disclosure (IAPD) database, which is available on Investor.gov. If you feel the fees charged to you are excessive, report your concern to the SEC, FINRA, or the North American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA). 

Updated Investor Bulletin: Mutual Fund Classes
Aug. 4, 2016
Updated February 24, 2021

The SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Advocacy is issuing this Investor Bulletin to provide investors information about mutual fund classes.  This bulletin addresses some of the fees that may apply to certain common mutual fund classes, but please note that mutual funds may have other fees and expenses that you should take into account when making an investment decision. If a financial professional has discretionary authority to invest in mutual funds on your behalf, these same considerations about fees and expenses apply and you should raise them with your financial professional. For more information on mutual fund fees and expenses, read our Investor Bulletin: Mutual Fund Fees and Expenses.

What are Mutual Fund Classes?
A mutual fund is an investment company that pools money from many investors and invests in securities such as stocks, bonds, and short-term debt. Many mutual funds offer different types of shares, known as "classes."  Each class of shares of the mutual fund invests in the same "pool" (or investment portfolio) of securities, but each class may have different fees and expenses.  This means that owning a different class of the same fund will result in different investment returns. The effect of different fees on different mutual fund share classes is compounded over time.

Mutual funds allow eligible investors to pick a share class with a fee and expense structure that best fits their investment goals, which may include the time that they expect to remain invested in the fund and how they wish to purchase shares (e.g., through a financial professional – such as a broker-dealer or an investment adviser -- versus directly through a brokerage account or the mutual fund company).  The more fees you pay, the less money is invested in the mutual fund share class and the less you will earn – now and over time.  So, it is important that you invest in a mutual fund class that is appropriate for your financial situation and that you understand the fees associated with that share class.  Also, the appropriate share class for you might change over time, for example, as your financial situation changes, or as new mutual fund classes are introduced.

What Types of Mutual Fund Classes Are There?
This bulletin discusses some of the common types of mutual fund share classes that investors can purchase.  For some types of share classes, the mutual fund may charge a fee when you purchase shares of the fund, when you sell shares of the fund, or both.  These fees are known as “sales loads” or “sales charges.”  These “sales loads” or “sales charges” are in addition to any transaction fee that may be charged when you buy or sell shares.  These classes of funds also pay 12b-1 fees, which are part of the fund’s ongoing operating expenses paid out of the fund’s assets to cover the costs of marketing and selling fund shares. Sales loads, sales charges, transaction fees, and 12b-1 fees all generally compensate the financial professional who sells you shares in the fund.

Some mutual funds also offer share classes with no sales load. These classes may be available for purchase in various ways, such as directly through a brokerage account or a mutual fund company or within an advisory account (i.e., an account managed by an investment adviser for a client).  However, like all classes, no-load classes still have ongoing operating costs, such as management fees, transfer agent fees and other operating expenses including, in some cases, 12b-1 fees.  In addition, transaction fees may be charged by the broker when buying or selling some no-load share classes. 

Common Classes With Sales Loads and 12b-1 Fees         
Class A shares might have a front-end sales load paid as a percentage of the purchase price, which may be discounted if certain criteria are met (e.g., a minimum amount is invested).  Class A shares may also be offered without the front-end sales load (“load waived”) to certain investors such as those investing through an advisory account.  Class A shares also have a 12b-1 fee, although this fee would generally be lower than the 12b-1 fee for certain other load bearing classes.
Class C shares might have a 12b-1 fee and a contingent deferred sales load (CDSL) (a percentage-based fee that investors pay only when they redeem fund shares) for some period of time (often a year).  Because Class C shares generally have a higher 12b-1 fee than other load bearing classes, you could end up paying more if you hold these shares for a long time.
Class B shares with a CDSL and a higher 12b-1 fee, but no front-end sales load were once relatively common.  However, Class B shares are no longer widely available.
No-load Classes
Retail no-load shares may go by a variety of different names.  These classes of shares are commonly available to retail investors directly through a brokerage account, fund family or within an investment advisory account. There is typically no transaction fee charged to the investor upon purchase, but the class of shares may pay 12b-1 fees.
Institutional Shares (Class I) may have some of the lowest ongoing operating expenses, but there could be relatively high initial investment minimums and/or transaction fees to invest directly through a brokerage account.  However, many mutual funds make these shares available to retail investors without requiring a high initial investment minimum through various means, including through an employer (e.g., through a retirement plan) or through an investment advisory account.  Taking advantage of Class I shares, if they are available to you, might be a good way to reduce your overall cost of investing in the mutual fund. 
Retirement share classes are typically only available through an employer-sponsored retirement plan, such as a 401(k).  Mutual funds may offer more than one retirement share class with different levels of ongoing operating expenses including those with and without 12b-1 fees.
Additional types of classes may also exist for some funds and may be a better fit for your needs, so do your homework and comparison shop.  Whenever a fund offers several classes, you should consider which class is best for you. Keep in mind that the share class with the lowest initial fees may not be the share class with the lowest fees over time.

What Factors Should You Consider in Selecting a Mutual Fund Class?
Here are a few factors to consider when choosing a share class:

Account Type.  Consider if you want to invest in the mutual fund directly (e.g., through a brokerage account or mutual fund company) or whether you would like help from a broker representative or an investment adviser.  You can learn more about the difference between brokers and advisers at Investor.gov/CRS.  Some share classes may only be available for purchase from a full service broker-dealer, while other classes may be offered through other means, like directly through a brokerage account or within an advisory account.
Your Financial Position.  Consider how much you plan to invest in mutual funds and how long you plan to hold those investments.  For share classes with a front-end sales load, you may qualify for a reduced sales load, or “breakpoint discount,” if, for example, you or you and eligible family members:
Make a large purchase;
Commit to regularly purchasing the mutual fund’s shares or purchasing a certain amount of the mutual fund’s shares in the future; or
Reach or surpass a “rights of accumulation” breakpoint, which is a discount offered when the dollar amount of mutual fund shares purchased plus the amount already held, often including mutual funds of the same fund family, equals a pre-determined threshold.
Your Investment Size and Time Horizon.  Consider the size of your investment, how long you expect to own the mutual fund and your need to access the money you invested when you think of the trade-off between share classes that charge front-end sales loads, CDSLs, and ongoing fees.  Smart planning may help reduce the total amount of money you pay in sales charges and other fees over time.
Fees and Expenses Paid to a Financial Professional.  Be aware that certain fees and expenses, like sales loads, 12b-1 fees, and CDSLs will likely compensate a financial professional who helps you purchase or sell shares.  Your financial professional could receive more or less compensation depending on the share class you purchase. Accordingly, your financial professional may limit which share classes are available, and this may be because of compensation they receive from the funds or their sponsors. What you can do:
Evaluate the share classes of the mutual funds that your financial professional recommends.  If a fund offers multiple classes, it may describe them all in a single prospectus, or it may describe them in separate prospectuses.  If there are multiple share classes that pay different fees and expenses, ask your financial professional why they chose or recommended that share class for you.
Consider your financial professional’s potential conflicts of interest.  Financial professionals that offer services to retail investors provide information about their conflicts of interest, including with respect to fees and expenses, in their relationship summary.  Investment advisers also provide certain information about conflicts of interest in their brochure and brochure supplement.  Under Regulation Best Interest, broker-dealers are also required to address conflicts of interest when they make recommendations to retail customers, including through disclosure, mitigation, and elimination.
You should decide which share class best fits your investment goals after careful consideration of the information disclosed in the prospectus (or prospectuses).  You can obtain prospectuses from the SEC’s Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (“EDGAR”) database or directly from the fund (most funds provide their prospectus on their websites and also have toll free numbers where you can request a copy). 

To figure out how the costs of mutual fund classes add up over time and to compare the costs of different classes, you can use the FINRA Fund Analyzer.

Conclusion
Whether or not you purchase shares of a fund with sales charges, these are not the only fees and expenses you will pay to invest in a mutual fund.  You should always consider your total cost of an investment, including sales charges, 12b-1 fees and other operating expenses.  Be sure to review your account statement(s) regularly, read the mutual fund prospectus and ask your financial professional to explain all of the sales charges, fees and expenses that may apply. 


Investor Bulletin: Brokers' Miscellaneous Fees
Dec. 15, 2014
The SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Advocacy is issuing this bulletin to make investors aware of the miscellaneous fees charged by some brokers.     

When you use a broker to buy or sell securities, your charges will generally fall into two categories:

a commission or markup associated with the trade; and
in some cases, miscellaneous fees for other expenses.   
What are miscellaneous fees and why am I being charged them?

Miscellaneous fees help to reimburse the broker for expenses incurred in performing the transaction or a service for you.  Miscellaneous fees may be labeled in a variety of ways, including as postage and handling charges, administrative service fees, clearing and transfer fees, execution facility fees, office overhead fees, supervision fees or third-party charges.         

How do I find out about the fees I’m being charged?

Brokers should provide written notice to customers of all service charges when accounts are opened, and customers also should be provided with written notice at least 30 days prior to the implementation or change of any service charges.

After each securities transaction, brokers must also deliver to you a confirmation statement with information about your transaction, including the commission and any other fees you paid.  Sometimes each fee charged will be listed separately.  For example, a confirmation statement may detail $10 for the security purchased and a $2 clearing fee for a total of $12.  Other brokers may add these amounts together and only the total amount—$12 in this example—appears on the confirmation statement.  In those instances where the commission and fees are not separated from the cost of the security purchased, the firm is required to give a breakdown of the charges upon request. 

Fees Impact Your Return. To be a smart investor you should be aware of the costs associated with your securities trades and investments.  Fees and other costs reduce your return on your investments, and can have a significant impact on the overall return of your investments over time.

How do I know if the fees I’m being charged are fair?

The fees your broker charges are required to be fair and reasonable.  What is fair and reasonable will vary depending on the circumstances.  It is a good idea to pay attention not only to the commissions your broker charges, but to other fees as well.

Some examples.  While many brokers do not charge customers miscellaneous fees associated with a transaction, those that do may charge widely differing amounts.  Some firms have charged different fees based on the branch office where the account is held and some firms have charged different fees to different customers. 

The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) fined five brokers in 2011 for routinely charging excessive handling fees of between $65 and $99 a trade.  Because these fees were far in excess of the brokers’ actual costs, FINRA found that the fees were actually disguised commissions that were not adequately disclosed.

The North American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA) has also discovered questionable practices regarding miscellaneous fees.  In one case, customers were charged $500 to receive securities in certificate form when the broker’s own cost for the service was only $60.

What should I do if I think a fee is too high?

Ask questions.  If your fees seem too high, ask questions.  Consider contacting the broker in writing if you are not satisfied. 
Negotiate.  In some cases, fees are negotiable, so you can talk to your broker about reducing them.
Shop around.  You should consider how much you are paying for investing services and shop around as appropriate.  Brokers, like any business, compete for customers on the basis of price and services.  However, before you decide to move to a new firm, you should think about any tax consequences and fees that might result from closing or transferring your account.   
File a complaint. Information about contacting the SEC, FINRA and NASAA appear at the end of this document.
When researching brokers, you can visit FINRA’s BrokerCheck or call FINRA’s toll-free BrokerCheck hotline at (800) 289-9999 to obtain information about a broker, including any regulatory actions taken by FINRA against the broker.  If your broker also is registered with the SEC as an investment adviser, you may use our Investment Adviser Public Disclosure (IAPD) website to research your broker.  If you feel the fees charged to you are excessive, contact the SEC, FINRA or NASAA to report your concern.  

Where can I go for help?

If you have a question, concern or complaint about an investment, or you think you have encountered fraud, please contact the SEC, FINRA or your state securities regulator to get assistance.

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

Office of Investor Education and Advocacy
100 F Street, NE
Washington, D.C. 20549-0213
Telephone: (800) 732-0330
Fax: (202) 772-9295

Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)

FINRA Complaints and Tips
9509 Key West Avenue
Rockville, Maryland 20850
Telephone: (301) 590-6500
Fax: (866) 397-3290

North American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA)

750 First Street, NE
Suite 1140
Washington, D.C. 20002
Telephone: (202) 737-0900
Fax: (202) 783-3571

Investor Bulletin: Opening an Investment Advisory Account
Sept. 25, 2017
Updated Jun. 24, 2020

The SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Advocacy is issuing this Investor Bulletin to provide tips on what to consider when opening an investment advisory account.   Investment advisory accounts differ from brokerage accounts, which generally are governed by different rules and regulations.  For information on opening a brokerage account, please see our bulletin: How to Open a Brokerage Account.

Before opening an account with any financial professional, you should always remember to check the individual or entity’s background and disciplinary history.  You can do this using the free and simple search tool found at Investor.gov.

Information to Discuss with a Potential Investment Adviser
Investment advisers offer a wide range of products and services, including financial planning, portfolio management or even advice concerning the selection of other investment advisers.  It is important to be sure an investment adviser can offer the services that are right for you.  You should be prepared to discuss what you are looking to get out of your investment advisory account with a potential investment adviser, and any adviser you are considering should be willing to have that conversation with you. 

Your investment goals—What do you want to save or invest for?  Are you looking to have income each month, or to save up for a large purchase?
Your investment timeline—When do you anticipate needing the money?
Your investment size—How much you want to invest? And do you want advice regarding all of your finances—even assets that you are not looking to invest?
Your risk tolerance—How much risk you are comfortable taking?  Would you be comfortable losing some or all of your money in exchange for potentially higher returns?
Your desired level of service—Are you comfortable giving someone else the authority to make investment decisions for your account?  How often do you want to discuss your account with your adviser?  Meet in person with him or her?  How much ongoing monitoring of your investments do you expect?  How frequently would you expect trades to occur?  Would advice be delivered through an individual person, or would some advice be through automated or online services (sometimes called robo-advice)?
Your costs—What fees are associated with the account?  And how does that compare to what you are paying or have paid in the past?   Do the fees make sense, given your situation and what you are looking for?
You may also want to ask general questions, like what type of clients the adviser typically provides advice to, and whether they tend to invest clients’ money in a certain type of product.  If you are unsure why the products and services being offered make sense for someone like you, ask the adviser to explain.

Understand Your Advisory Contract
Before opening an investment advisory account, you should understand what is covered by your agreement with the investment adviser.  Most advisers will ask you to sign a written advisory contract.  You should read the advisory contract and any other disclosure documents and be sure you understand important information like:

Types and frequency of services provided
Types of products offered
How fees are calculated
Your responsibilities under the contract
How to contact your adviser, including specific requirements like putting certain communications in writing
How to cancel the contract
The conflicts of interest the adviser has with you and how those conflicts may be managed
What your remedies are if you are unhappy with the service you are provided
Understand Your Fees
You will pay a variety of fees in connection with your investment advisory account.  The types of fees and their amounts will vary among investment advisers.  Before opening an account, make sure you understand what fees will apply.  This includes fees that are paid to your adviser directly or indirectly, and also other fees that are paid to third-party service providers instead of your adviser.

Advisers commonly earn money through client fees, commissions, or a combination of the two.

Client fees may include an hourly, fixed or flat fee based on the time an adviser spends providing you with advice or on specific transactions in your account, like buying or selling securities.  Client fees may also be based on the value of assets in your account.  These “asset-based fees” might be ongoing, whether there are transactions in your account or not.
Commissions are based on certain transactions in your account—for example, purchasing a particular security.  
In addition to paying your adviser, you will likely pay ongoing fees in connection with purchasing and owning certain investments, like mutual funds, ETFs and variable annuities.  Understanding the types and total amount of fees you might be charged is particularly important — even small ongoing fees can have a significant impact on your return on your investments over time.  For additional information on fees associated with investment products and services, please read Updated Investor Bulletin: How Fees and Expenses Affect Your Investment Portfolio.

Your adviser will provide you with a brochure containing important information about its advisory business before or at the time you enter into an advisory agreement.  The brochure is required to include information about how the adviser is compensated for its advisory services, its fee schedule, whether the fees are negotiable and the conflicts of interest the adviser may have.

Your adviser will also provide you with a “relationship summary.” The relationship summary includes information about the types of services the adviser offers, the fees and costs you will have to pay for those services, the conflicts of interest the adviser may have, the required standard of conduct, any legal and disciplinary history and questions to ask the adviser.

Questions You Should Ask Before Opening an Investment Advisory Account
Given my financial situation should I choose an investment advisory service?
What services will I receive with this investment advisory account?  How frequently will I receive these services?
Help me understand how fees and costs might affect my investments. If I give you $10,000 to invest, how much will go to fees and costs, and how much will be invested for me?” How do the fees compare to what I am paying now?
Who will make investment recommendations and/or decisions for my account?  What is their relevant experience, including their licenses, education and other qualifications? What do these qualifications mean?”
How will you choose investments to recommend to me?
What choices do I have regarding investments? 
How can I access funds in my account and how much time does that take? 
How will I receive my account statements?  Will they be online or in paper?
Who is my primary contact person? Who can I talk to if I have concerns about how this person is treating me?
How regularly will you review my account?
How might your conflicts of interest affect me, and how will you address them?
Do you or any of your financial professionals have any disciplinary history? For what type of conduct?

Mutual Fund Fees and Expenses
As with any business, running a mutual fund involves costs. For example, there are costs incurred in connection with particular investor transactions, such as investor purchases, exchanges, and redemptions. There are also regular fund operating costs that are not necessarily associated with any particular investor transaction, such as investment advisory fees, marketing and distribution expenses, brokerage fees, and custodial, transfer agency, legal, and accountants’ fees.

Some funds cover the costs associated with an individual investor’s transactions and account by imposing fees and charges directly on the investor at the time of the transactions (or periodically with respect to account fees). These fees and charges are identified in the fee table, located near the front of a fund’s prospectus, under the heading "Shareholder Fees."

Funds typically pay their regular and recurring, fund-wide operating expenses out of fund assets, rather than by imposing separate fees and charges directly on investors. (Keep in mind, however, that because these expenses are paid out of fund assets, investors are paying them indirectly.) These expenses are identified in the fee table in the fund’s prospectus under the heading "Annual Fund Operating Expenses."

In the fee table, under the heading of "Shareholder Fees," you will find:

Sales Loads (including Sales Charge (Load) on Purchases and Deferred Sales Charge (Load))

Redemption Fee

Exchange Fee

Account Fee

Purchase Fee

In the fee table, under the heading of "Annual Fund Operating Expenses," you will find:

Management Fees

Distribution [and/or Service] (12b-1) Fees

Other Expenses

Total Annual Fund Operating Expenses 

Shareholder Fees
Sales Loads

Funds that use brokers to sell their shares typically compensate the brokers. Funds may do this by imposing a fee on investors, known as a sales load (or sales charge), which is paid to the selling brokers. In this respect, a sales load is like a commission investors pay when they purchase any type of security from a broker. Although sales loads most frequently are used to compensate outside brokers that distribute fund shares, some funds that do not use outside brokers still charge sales loads. There are two general types of sales loads—a front-end sales load investors pay when they purchase fund shares and a back-end or deferred sales load investors pay when they redeem their shares.

Sales Charge (Load) on Purchases – Front-End Loads

The category "Sales Charge (Load) on Purchases" in the fee table includes sales loads that investors pay when they purchase fund shares (also known as front-end sales loads). The key point to keep in mind about a front-end sales load is it reduces the amount available to purchase fund shares. For example, if an investor writes a $10,000 check to a fund for the purchase of fund shares, and the fund has a 5% front-end sales load, the total amount of the sales load will be $500. The $500 sales load is first deducted from the $10,000 check (and typically paid to a selling broker), and assuming no other front-end fees, the remaining $9,500 is used to purchase fund shares for the investor.

Deferred Sales Charge (Load) – Back-End Loads

The category "Deferred Sales Charge (Load)" in the fee table refers to a sales load that investors pay when they redeem fund shares (that is, sell their shares back to the fund). You may also see this referred to as a deferred or back-end sales load. When an investor purchases shares that are subject to a back-end sales load rather than a front-end sales load, no sales load is deducted at purchase, and all of the investors’ money is immediately used to purchase fund shares (assuming that no other fees or charges apply at the time of purchase). For example, if an investor invests $10,000 in a fund with a 5% back-end sales load, and if there are no other "purchase fees," the entire $10,000 will be used to purchase fund shares, and the 5% sales load is not deducted until the investor redeems his or her shares, at which point the fee is deducted from the redemption proceeds.

Typically, a fund calculates the amount of a back-end sales load based on the lesser of the value of the shareholder’s initial investment or the value of the shareholder’s investment at redemption. For example, if the shareholder initially invests $10,000, and at redemption the investment has appreciated to $12,000, a back-end sales load calculated in this manner would be based on the value of the initial investment—$10,000—not on the value of the investment at redemption. Investors should carefully read a fund’s prospectus to determine whether the fund calculates its back-end sales load in this manner.

The most common type of back-end sales load is the "contingent deferred sales load," also referred to as a "CDSC," or "CDSL." The amount of this type of load will depend on how long the investor holds his or her shares and typically decreases to zero if the investor holds his or her shares long enough. For example, a contingent deferred sales load might be 5% if an investor holds his or her shares for one year, 4% if the investor holds his or her shares for two years, and so on until the load goes away completely. The rate at which this fee will decline will be disclosed in the fund’s prospectus.

A Word about No-Load Funds
Some funds call themselves no-load. As the name implies, this means that the fund does not charge any type of sales load. As described above, however, not every type of shareholder fee is a sales load, and a no-load fund may charge fees that are not sales loads. For example, a no-load fund is permitted to charge purchase fees, redemption fees, exchange fees, and account fees, none of which is considered to be a sales load.

Redemption Fee

A redemption fee is another type of fee that some funds charge their shareholders when the shareholders redeem their shares. Although a redemption fee is deducted from redemption proceeds just like a deferred sales load, it is not considered to be a sales load. Unlike a sales load, which is used to pay brokers, a redemption fee is typically used to defray fund costs associated with a shareholder’s redemption and is paid directly to the fund, not to a broker. The SEC limits redemption fees to 2%.

Exchange Fee

An exchange fee is a fee that some funds impose on shareholders if they exchange (transfer) to another fund within the same fund group.

Account Fee

An account fee is a fee that some funds separately impose on investors in connection with the maintenance of their accounts. For example, some funds impose an account maintenance fee on accounts whose value is less than a certain dollar amount.

Purchase Fee

A purchase fee is another type of fee that some funds charge their shareholders when the shareholders purchase their shares. A purchase fee differs from, and is not considered to be, a front-end sales load because a purchase fee is paid to the fund (not to a broker) and is typically imposed to defray some of the fund’s costs associated with the purchase.

Annual Fund Operating Expenses
Management Fees

Management fees are fees that are paid out of fund assets to the fund’s investment adviser (or its affiliates) for managing the fund’s investment portfolio and for administrative fees payable to the investment adviser that are not included in the "Other Expenses" category.

Distribution [and/or Service] (12b-1) Fees

This category identifies so-called "12b-1 fees," which are fees paid by the fund out of fund assets to cover distribution expenses and sometimes shareholder service expenses.  12b-1 fees get their name from the SEC rule that authorizes a fund to pay them. The rule permits a fund to pay distribution fees out of fund assets only if the fund has adopted a plan (12b-1 plan) authorizing their payment.

“Distribution fees" include fees paid for marketing and selling fund shares, such as compensating brokers and others who sell fund shares, and paying for advertising, the printing and mailing of prospectuses to new investors, and the printing and mailing of sales literature.

Some 12b-1 plans also authorize and include "shareholder service fees," which are fees paid to persons to respond to investor inquiries and provide investors with information about their investments. A fund may pay shareholder service fees without adopting a 12b-1 plan. If shareholder service fees are part of a fund’s 12b-1 plan, these fees will be included in this category of the fee table. If shareholder service fees are paid outside a 12b-1 plan, then they will be included in the "Other Expenses" category.

Other Expenses

Included in this category are expenses not included in the categories "Management Fees" or "Distribution [and/or Service] (12b-1) Fees." Examples include: shareholder service expenses that are not included in the "Distribution [and/or Service] (12b-1) Fees" category; custodial expenses; legal expenses; accounting expenses; transfer agent expenses; and other administrative expenses.

Total Annual Fund Operating Expenses

This line of the fee table is the total of a fund’s annual fund operating expenses, expressed as a percentage of the fund’s average net assets.

A Word about Mutual Fund Fees and Expenses
As you might expect, fees and expenses vary from fund to fund. A fund with high costs must perform better than a low-cost fund to generate the same returns for you. Even small differences in fees can translate into large differences in returns over time. For example, if you invested $10,000 in a fund that produced a 5% annual return before expenses and had annual operating expenses of 1.5%, then after 20 years you would have roughly $19,612. But if the fund had expenses of only 0.5%, then you would end up with $24,002 – a 23% difference. It takes only minutes to use a mutual fund cost calculator such as FINRA’s Fund Analyzer to compute how the costs of different mutual funds add up over time and eat into your returns.

12b-1 Fees
Fees paid out of fund assets to cover the costs of marketing and selling fund shares. "Distribution fees" include fees to compensate brokers and others who sell fund shares, and to pay for advertising, and printing and mailing prospectuses to new investors. "Shareholder Service Fees" are fees that cover the cost of responding to investor inquiries and providing investors with information.

Distribution Fees
Fees paid out of fund assets to cover marketing and selling fund shares. These fees may cover advertising costs, compensating brokers and others who sell fund shares, payments for printing and mailing prospectuses to new investors, and providing sales literature to prospective investors. Distribution fees sometimes are referred to as "12b-1 fees."


Sales Charge (or Load)
The amount that investors pay when they buy (front-end load) or redeem (back-end load) shares in a mutual fund, similar to a commission. The SEC's rules do not limit sales loads a fund may charge, but FINRA's rules cap mutual fund sales loads at 8.5% of the purchase or sale, or at lower levels, depending on other fees and charges.

Redemption Fee
A shareholder fee that some funds charge when investors redeem (sell) mutual fund shares. Redemption fees, which must be paid to the fund, are not the same as and may be in addition to a back-end load, which is typically paid to a broker. The SEC generally limits redemption fees to 2% of the sales amount.

Exchange Fee
A fee that some funds impose on shareholders if they exchange (transfer) to another fund within the same fund group.

Account Fee
A fee that some funds separately impose on investors for account maintenance. For example, individuals with accounts below a specified dollar amount may have to pay an account fee.

Purchase Fee
A shareholder fee that some funds charge when investors buy mutual fund shares. This is not the same as, and may be in addition to, a front-end load.

Management Fee
A fee paid out of fund assets to the fund's investment adviser for investment portfolio management. A fund's management fees appear under Annual Fund Operating Expenses in the fee table in the fund's prospectus.

Shareholder Service Fees
Fees paid to respond to inquiries from investors and provide them with information about their investments.

Total Annual Fund Operating Expense
The total of a fund's annual fund operating expenses, expressed as a percentage of the fund's average net assets. You'll find the total in the fund's fee table in the prospectus.


Asset Allocation

Asset allocation involves dividing your investments among different assets, such as stocks, bonds, and cash. The asset allocation decision is a personal one. The allocation that works best for you changes at different times in your life, depending on how long you have to invest and your ability to tolerate risk.

Factors to consider include your:

Time Horizon. Your time horizon is the number of months, years, or decades you need to invest to achieve your financial goal. Investors with a longer time horizon may feel comfortable taking on riskier or more volatile investments. Those with a shorter time horizon may prefer to take on less risk.

Risk Tolerance. Risk tolerance is your ability and willingness to lose some or all of your original investment in exchange for potentially greater returns.

What is diversification?
What is rebalancing?
What is diversification?

The practice of spreading money among different investments to reduce risk is known as diversification. Diversification is a strategy that can be neatly summed up as “Don’t put all your eggs in one basket.”

One way to diversify is to allocate your investments among different kinds of assets. Historically, stocks, bonds, and cash have not moved up and down at the same time. Factors that may cause one asset class to perform poorly may improve returns for another asset class. People invest in various asset classes in the hope that if one is losing money, the others make up for those losses.

You’ll also be better diversified if you spread your investments within each asset class. That means holding a number of different stocks or bonds, and investing in different industry sectors, such as consumer goods, health care, and technology. That way, if one sector is doing poorly, you may offset it with other holdings in sectors that are doing well.

Some investors find it easier to diversify by owning mutual funds. A mutual fund is a company that pools money from many investors and invests the money in stocks, bonds, and other financial products. Mutual funds make it easy for investors to own a small portion of many investments. A total stock market index fund, for example, owns stock in thousands of companies, providing a lot of diversification for one investment.

A mutual fund won’t necessarily provide diversification, especially if it focuses on only one industry sector. If you invest in narrowly focused mutual funds, you may need to invest in several to be diversified. As you add more investments to your portfolio, you’ll likely pay additional fees and expenses, which will lower your investment returns. So you’ll need to consider these costs when deciding the best way to diversify your portfolio.
What is rebalancing?

Rebalancing is what investors do to bring their portfolio back to its original asset allocation mix. Rebalancing is needed because over time, some investments will grow faster than others. This may push your holdings out of alignment with your investment goals. By rebalancing, you will ensure that your portfolio does not overweight a particular asset category, and you’ll return your portfolio to a comfortable level of risk.

For example, you might start with 60% of your portfolio invested in stocks, but see that rise to 80% due to market gains. To reestablish your original asset allocation mix, you’ll either need to sell some of your stocks or invest in other asset categories.

There are three ways you can rebalance your portfolio:

    You can sell investments where your holdings are over weighted and use the proceeds to buy investments for underweighted asset categories.
    You can buy new investments for underweighted asset categories.
    If you are continuing to add to your investments, you can alter your contributions so that more goes to underweighted asset categories until your portfolio is back into balance.

Before you rebalance your portfolio, you should consider whether the method of rebalancing you decide to use would entail transaction fees or tax consequences. Your financial professional or tax adviser can help you identify ways that you can minimize these potential costs.

Some financial experts advise rebalancing at regular intervals, such as every six or 12 months. Others recommend rebalancing when your holdings of an asset class increase or decrease more than a certain pre-set percentage. In either case, rebalancing tends to work best when done on a relatively infrequent basis.

Shifting money away from an asset class when it is doing well in favor of an asset category that is doing poorly may not be easy. But it can be a wise move. By cutting back on current “winners” and adding more current “losers,” rebalancing forces you to buy low and sell high.


Assessing Your Risk Tolerance

When it comes to investing, risk and reward go hand in hand. The phrase “no pain, no gain” – comes close to summing up the relationship between risk and reward. Don’t let anyone tell you otherwise: all investments involve some degree of risk. If you plan to buy securities – such as stocks, bonds, mutual funds, or ETFs – it’s important that you understand that you could lose some or all of the money you invest.

The reward for taking on risk is the potential for a greater investment return. If you have a financial goal with a long time horizon, you may make more money by carefully investing in higher risk assets, such as stocks or bonds, than if limit yourself to less risky assets. On the other hand, lower risk cash investments may be appropriate for short-term financial goals.

An aggressive investor, or one with a high risk tolerance, is willing to risk losing money to get potentially better results. A conservative investor, or one with a low risk tolerance, favors investments that maintain his or her original investment.

Many investment websites offer free online questionnaires to help you assess your risk tolerance. Some of the websites will even estimate asset allocations based on responses to the questionnaires. While the suggested asset allocations may be a useful starting point, keep in mind that the results may be biased towards financial products or services sold by companies or individuals sponsoring the websites.


Stocks
What are stocks?

Stocks are a type of security that gives stockholders a share of ownership in a company. Stocks also are called “equities.”

Why do people buy stocks?
Why do companies issue stock?
What kinds of stock are there?
What are the benefits and risks of stocks?
How to buy and sell stocks
Understanding fees
Avoiding fraud
Additional information
Why do people buy stocks?

Investors buy stocks for various reasons. Here are some of them:

    Capital appreciation, which occurs when a stock rises in price
    Dividend payments, which come when the company distributes some of its earnings to stockholders
    Ability to vote shares and influence the company

Why do companies issue stock?

Companies issue stock to get money for various things, which may include:

    Paying off debt
    Launching new products
    Expanding into new markets or regions
    Enlarging facilities or building new ones

What kinds of stocks are there?

There are two main kinds of stocks, common stock and preferred stock.

Common stock entitles owners to vote at shareholder meetings and receive dividends.

Preferred stockholders usually don’t have voting rights but they receive dividend payments before common stockholders do, and have priority over common stockholders if the company goes bankrupt and its assets are liquidated.

Common and preferred stocks may fall into one or more of the following categories:

    Growth stocks have earnings growing at a faster rate than the market average. They rarely pay dividends and investors buy them in the hope of capital appreciation. A start-up technology company is likely to be a growth stock.
    Income stocks pay dividends consistently. Investors buy them for the income they generate. An established utility company is likely to be an income stock.
    Value stocks have a low price-to-earnings (PE) ratio, meaning they are cheaper to buy than stocks with a higher PE. Value stocks may be growth or income stocks, and their low PE ratio may reflect the fact that they have fallen out of favor with investors for some reason. People buy value stocks in the hope that the market has overreacted and that the stock’s price will rebound.
    Blue-chip stocks are shares in large, well-known companies with a solid history of growth. They generally pay dividends.

Another way to categorize stocks is by the size of the company, as shown in its market capitalization. There are large-cap, mid-cap, and small-cap stocks. Shares in very small companies are sometimes called “microcap” stocks. The very lowest priced stocks are known as “penny stocks.” These companies may have little or no earnings. Penny stocks do not pay dividends and are highly speculative.
What are the benefits and risks of stocks?

Stocks offer investors the greatest potential for growth (capital appreciation) over the long haul. Investors willing to stick with stocks over long periods of time, say 15 years, generally have been rewarded with strong, positive returns.

But stock prices move down as well as up. There’s no guarantee that the company whose stock you hold will grow and do well, so you can lose money you invest in stocks.

If a company goes bankrupt and its assets are liquidated, common stockholders are the last in line to share in the proceeds. The company’s bondholders will be paid first, then holders of preferred stock. If you are a common stockholder, you get whatever is left, which may be nothing.

Even when companies aren’t in danger of failing, their stock price may fluctuate up or down. Large company stocks as a group, for example, have lost money on average about one out of every three years. If you have to sell shares on a day when the stock price is below the price you paid for the shares, you will lose money on the sale.

Market fluctuations can be unnerving to some investors. A stock’s price can be affected by factors inside the company, such as a faulty product, or by events the company has no control over, such as political or market events.

Stocks usually are one part of an investor’s holdings. If you are young and saving for a long-term goal such as retirement, you may want to hold more stocks than bonds. Investors nearing or in retirement may want to hold more bonds than stocks.

The risks of stock holdings can be offset in part by investing in a number of different stocks. Investing in other kinds of assets that are not stocks, such as bonds, is another way to offset some of the risks of owning stocks.
How to buy and sell stocks

You can buy and sell stocks through:

    A direct stock plan
    A dividend reinvestment plan
    A discount or full-service broker
    A stock fund

Direct stock plans. Some companies allow you to buy or sell their stock directly through them without using a broker. This saves on commissions, but you may have to pay other fees to the plan, including if you transfer shares to a broker to sell them. Some companies limit direct stock plans to employees of the company or existing shareholders. Some require minimum amounts for purchases or account levels.

Direct stock plans usually will not allow you to buy or sell shares at a specific market price or at a specific time. Instead, the company will buy or sell shares for the plan at set times — such as daily, weekly, or monthly — and at an average market price. Depending on the plan, you may be able to automate your purchases and have the cost deducted automatically from your savings account.

Dividend reinvestment plans. These plans allow you to buy more shares of a stock you already own by reinvesting dividend payments into the company. You must sign an agreement with the company to have this done. Check with the company or your brokerage firm to see if you will be charged for this service.

Discount or full-service broker. Brokers buy and sell shares for customers for a fee, known as a commission.

Stock funds are another way to buy stocks. These are a type of mutual fund that invests primarily in stocks. Depending on its investment objective and policies, a stock fund may concentrate on a particular type of stock, such as blue chips, large-cap value stocks, or mid-cap growth stocks. Stock funds are offered by investment companies and can be purchased directly from them or through a broker or adviser.
Understanding fees

Buying and selling stocks entails fees. A direct stock plan or a dividend reinvestment plan may charge you a fee for that service. Brokers who buy and sell stocks for you charge a commission. A discount brokerage charges lower commissions than what you would pay at a full-service brokerage. But generally you have to research and choose investments by yourself. A full-service brokerage costs more, but the higher commissions pay for investment advice based on that firm’s research.
Avoiding fraud

Stocks in public companies are registered with the SEC and in most cases, public companies are required to file reports to the SEC quarterly and annually. Annual reports include financial statements that have been audited by an independent audit firm. Information on public companies can be found on the SEC’s EDGAR system.


Bonds
What are bonds?

A bond is a debt security, like an IOU. Borrowers issue bonds to raise money from investors willing to lend them money for a certain amount of time.

When you buy a bond, you are lending to the issuer, which may be a government, municipality, or corporation. In return, the issuer promises to pay you a specified rate of interest during the life of the bond and to repay the principal, also known as face value or par value of the bond, when it "matures," or comes due after a set period of time.

Why are bonds bought and sold?
What types of bonds are there?
What are the benefits and risks of bonds?
Avoiding fraud
Additional information
Why are bonds bought and sold?

Investors buy bonds because:

    They provide a predictable income stream. Typically, bonds pay interest on a regular schedule, such as every six months.
    If the bonds are held to maturity, bondholders get back the entire principal, so bonds are a way to preserve capital while investing.
    Bonds can help offset exposure to more volatile stock holdings.

Companies, governments and municipalities issue bonds to get money for various things, which may include:

    Providing operating cash flow
    Financing debt
    Funding capital investments in schools, highways, hospitals, and other projects

What types of bonds are there?

There are three main types of bonds:

1. Corporate bonds are debt securities issued by private and public corporations. Some common types of corporate bonds include:

    Investment-grade.  These bonds have a higher credit rating, implying less credit risk, than high-yield corporate bonds.
    High-yield.  These bonds have a lower credit rating, implying higher credit risk, than investment-grade bonds and, therefore, offer higher interest rates in return for the increased risk.

2. Municipal bonds, called “munis,” are debt securities issued by states, cities, counties and other government entities. Types of “munis” include:

    General obligation bonds. Refers to bonds issued by a state or local government that are payable from either an issuer’s general fund or specific taxes (usually property tax). The precise source and priority of payment for general obligation bonds may vary among issuers depending on applicable state and local laws. General obligation bonds issued by local governments are often payable only from property taxes while general obligation bonds issued by states are often said to entail the full faith and credit (and in many cases the full taxing power) of the issuer.
    Revenue bonds. Instead of taxes, these bonds are backed by revenues from a specific project or source, such as highway tolls or lease fees.  Some revenue bonds are “non-recourse,” meaning that if the revenue stream dries up, the bondholders do not have a claim on the underlying revenue source.
    Conduit bonds. Governments sometimes issue municipal bonds on behalf of private entities such as non-profit colleges or hospitals. These “conduit” borrowers typically agree to repay the issuer, who pays the interest and principal on the bonds. If the conduit borrower fails to make a payment, the issuer usually is not required to pay the bondholders.

3. U.S. Treasuries are issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury on behalf of the U.S. government. They carry the full faith and credit of the U.S. government, making them a safe and popular investment. Types of U.S. Treasury debt

 include:

    Treasury Bills. Short-term securities maturing in a few days to 52 weeks
    Notes. Longer-term securities maturing within ten years
    Bonds. Long-term securities that typically mature in 30 years and pay interest every six months
    TIPS. Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities are notes and bonds whose principal is adjusted based on changes in the Consumer Price Index. TIPS pay interest every six months and are issued with maturities of five, ten, and 30 years.

What are the benefits and risks of bonds?

Bonds can provide a means of preserving capital and earning a predictable return. Bond investments provide steady streams of income from interest payments prior to maturity.

The interest from municipal bonds generally is exempt from federal income tax and also may be exempt from state and local taxes for residents in the states where the bond is issued.

As with any investment, bonds have risks. These risks include:

    Credit risk.  The issuer may fail to timely make interest or principal payments and thus default on its bonds.
    Interest rate risk. Interest rate changes can affect a bond’s value. If bonds are held to maturity the investor will receive the face value, plus interest. If sold before maturity, the bond may be worth more or less than the face value. Rising interest rates will make newly issued bonds more appealing to investors because the newer bonds will have a higher rate of interest than older ones. To sell an older bond with a lower interest rate, you might have to sell it at a discount.
    Inflation risk. Inflation is a general upward movement in prices. Inflation reduces purchasing power, which is a risk for investors receiving a fixed rate of interest.
    Liquidity risk. This refers to the risk that investors won’t find a market for the bond, potentially preventing them from buying or selling when they want.
    Call risk. The possibility that a bond issuer retires a bond before its maturity date, something an issuer might do if interest rates decline, much like a homeowner might refinance a mortgage to benefit from lower interest rates.

Avoiding fraud

Corporate bonds are securities and, if publicly offered, must be registered with the SEC. The registration of these securities can be verified using the SEC’s EDGAR system. Be wary of any person who attempts to sell non-registered bonds.

Most municipal securities issued after July 3, 1995 are required to file annual financial information, operating data, and notices of certain events with the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB). This information is available free of charge online at www.emma.msrb.org
. If the municipal bond is not filed with MSRB, this could be a red flag.


Corporate Bonds

A bond is a debt obligation, like an IOU. Investors who buy corporate bonds are lending money to the company issuing the bond. In return, the company makes a legal commitment to pay interest on the principal and, in most cases, to return the principal when the bond comes due, or matures.

To understand bonds, it is helpful to compare them with stocks. When you buy a share of common stock, you own equity in the company and will receive any dividends declared and paid by the company. When you buy a corporate bond, you do not own equity in the company. You will receive only the interest and principal on the bond, no matter how profitable the company becomes or how high its stock price climbs. But if the company runs into financial difficulties, it still has a legal obligation to make timely payments of interest and principal. The company has no similar obligation to pay dividends to shareholders. In a bankruptcy, bond investors have priority over shareholders in claims on the company's assets.

Like all investments, bonds carry risks. One key risk to a bondholder is that the company may fail to make timely payments of interest or principal. If that happens, the company will default on its bonds. This "default risk" makes the creditworthiness of the company—that is, its ability to pay its debt obligations on time—an important concern to bondholders.
What are the basic types of corporate bonds?

Corporate bonds make up one of the largest components of the U.S. bond market, which is considered the largest securities market in the world. Other components include U.S. Treasury bonds, other U.S. government bonds, and municipal bonds.

Companies use the proceeds from bond sales for a wide variety of purposes, including buying new equipment, investing in research and development, buying back their own stock, paying shareholder dividends, refinancing debt, and financing mergers and acquisitions.

Bonds can be classified according to their maturity, which is the date when the company has to pay back the principal to investors. Maturities can be short term (less than three years), medium term (four to 10 years), or long term (more than 10 years). Longer-term bonds usually offer higher interest rates, but may entail additional risks.

Bonds and the companies that issue them are also classified according to their credit quality. Credit rating agencies assign credit ratings based on their evaluation of the risk that the company may default on its bonds. Credit rating agencies periodically review their bond ratings and may revise them if conditions or expectations change.

Based on their credit ratings, bonds can be either investment grade or non-investment grade. Investment-grade bonds are considered more likely than non-investment grade bonds to be paid on time. Non-investment grade bonds, which are also called high-yield or speculative bonds, generally offer higher interest rates to compensate investors for greater risk.

Bonds also differ according to the type of interest payments they offer. Many bonds pay a fixed rate of interest throughout their term. Interest payments are called coupon payments, and the interest rate is called the coupon rate. With a fixed coupon rate, the coupon payments stay the same regardless of changes in market interest rates.

Other bonds offer floating rates that are reset periodically, such as every six months. These bonds adjust their interest payments to changes in market interest rates. Floating rates are based on a bond index or other benchmark. For example, the floating rate may equal the interest rate on a certain type of Treasury bond plus 1%.

One type of bond makes no interest payments until the bond matures. These are called zero-coupon bonds, because they make no coupon payments. Instead, the bond makes a single payment at maturity that is higher than the initial purchase price. For example, an investor may pay $800 to purchase a five-year, zero-coupon bond with a face value of $1,000. The company pays no interest on the bond for the next five years, and then, at maturity, pays $1,000—equal to the purchase price of $800 plus interest, or original issue discount, of $200. Investors in zero-coupon bonds generally must pay taxes each year on a prorated share of the interest before the interest is actually paid at maturity.
What happens if a company goes into bankruptcy?

If a company defaults on its bonds and goes bankrupt, bondholders will have a claim on the company's assets and cash flows. The bond's terms determine the bondholder's place in line, or the priority of the claim. Priority will be based on whether the bond is, for example, a secured bond, a senior unsecured bond or a junior unsecured (or subordinated) bond.

In the case of a secured bond, the company pledges specific collateral—such as property, equipment, or other assets that the company owns—as security for the bond. If the company defaults, holders of secured bonds will have a legal right to foreclose on the collateral to satisfy their claims.

Bonds that have no collateral pledged to them are unsecured and may be called debentures. Debentures have a general claim on the company's assets and cash flows. They may be classified as either senior or junior (subordinated) debentures. If the company defaults, holders of senior debentures will have a higher priority claim on the company's assets and cash flows than holders of junior debentures.

Bondholders, however, are usually not the company's only creditors. The company may also owe money to banks, suppliers, customers, pensioners, and others, some of whom may have equal or higher claims than certain bondholders. Sorting through the competing claims of creditors is a complex process that unfolds in bankruptcy court.


High-yield Corporate Bonds

A high-yield corporate bond is a type of corporate bond that offers a higher rate of interest because of its higher risk of default. When companies with a greater estimated default risk issue bonds, they may be unable to obtain an investment-grade bond credit rating. As a result, they typically issue bonds with higher interest rates in order to entice investors and compensate them for this higher risk.

High-yield bond issuers may be companies characterized as highly leveraged or those experiencing financial difficulties. Smaller or emerging companies may also have to issue high-yield bonds to offset unproven operating histories or because their financial plans may be considered speculative or risky.


Municipal Bonds
What are municipal bonds?

Municipal bonds (or “munis” for short) are debt securities issued by states, cities, counties and other governmental entities to fund day-to-day obligations and to finance capital projects such as building schools, highways or sewer systems. By purchasing municipal bonds, you are in effect lending money to the bond issuer in exchange for a promise of regular interest payments, usually semi-annually, and the return of the original investment, or “principal.” A municipal bond’s maturity date (the date when the issuer of the bond repays the principal) may be years in the future. Short-term bonds mature in one to three years, while long-term bonds won’t mature for more than a decade.

Generally, the interest on municipal bonds is exempt from federal income tax. The interest may also be exempt from state and local taxes if you reside in the state where the bond is issued. Bond investors typically seek a steady stream of income payments and, compared to stock investors, may be more risk-averse and more focused on preserving, rather than increasing, wealth. Given the tax benefits, the interest rate for tax-exempt municipal bonds is usually lower than on taxable fixed-income securities such as corporate bonds with similar maturities, credit qualities and other items.

The two most common types of municipal bonds are the following: 

    General obligation bonds are issued by states, cities or counties and not secured by any assets. Instead, general obligation are backed by the “full faith and credit” of the issuer, which has the power to tax residents to pay bondholders.
    Revenue bonds are not backed by government’s taxing power but by revenues from a specific project or source, such as highway tolls or lease fees. Some revenue bonds are “non-recourse”, meaning that if the revenue stream dries up, the bondholders do not have a claim on the underlying revenue source.

In addition, municipal borrowers sometimes issue bonds on behalf of private entities such as non-profit colleges or hospitals. These “conduit” borrowers typically agree to repay the issuer, who pays the interest and principal on the bonds. In cases where the conduit borrower fails to make a payment, the issuer usually is not required to pay the bondholders.
Where can investors find information about municipal bonds?

The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board’s Electronic Municipal Market Access (EMMA®) website

provides free public access to municipal securities documents and data. Get access to:

Information about Specific Municipal Securities

    Official statements

(the prospectus for a municipal bond)
Financial disclosure documents from the issuer of the bond
Other ongoing disclosure documents about events affecting the bondCredit ratings information for rated bondsTrade prices, yields and other data about a bond’s trading historyInformation about 529 savings plans and ABLE programs

Market-Wide Information

    Yield curves and indices from third-party providers

Calendar of municipal securities scheduled to be offeredCalendar of upcoming economic reports and events that may have an impact on the municipal bond marketMarket statistics about overall trading patterns and most active securitiesPolitical contribution disclosuresNote that many issuers maintain websites or webpages specifically for investors in their municipal bonds. Some issuers hyperlink to those webpages from their homepage on EMMA. Learn how to find issuer homepages on EMMA

.

The SEC designated EMMA as the official repository for municipal securities disclosures in 2009. The SEC oversees the MSRB. The MSRB

is a self-regulatory organization whose mission is to protect investors, state and local governments and other municipal entities, and the public interest by promoting a fair and efficient municipal securities market. Neither the SEC nor the MSRB review the disclosure documents prior to their posting on EMMA.

Learn more about how to use EMMA by visiting EMMA Help
. Also, the MSRB welcomes questions about how to locate municipal bond disclosures, including older ones that pre-date EMMA’s launch in 2009. Use their Contact Form. For EMMA updates, sign up for EMMA updates via MSRB communications and follow the MSRB on Twitter (@MSRBNews

) and LinkedIn.
What are some of the risks of investing in municipal bonds?

As with any investment, investing in municipal bonds entails risk. Investors in municipal bonds face a number of risks, specifically including:

Call risk. Call risk refers to the potential for an issuer to repay a bond before its maturity date, something that an issuer may do if interest rates decline -- much as a homeowner might refinance a mortgage loan to benefit from lower interest rates. Bond calls are less likely when interest rates are stable or moving higher. Many municipal bonds are “callable,” so investors who want to hold a municipal bond to maturity should research the bond’s call provisions before making a purchase.

Credit risk. This is the risk that the bond issuer may experience financial problems that make it difficult or impossible to pay interest and principal in full (the failure to pay interest or principal is referred to as “default”). Credit ratings are available for many bonds. Credit ratings seek to estimate the relative credit risk of a bond as compared with other bonds, although a high rating does not reflect a prediction that the bond has no chance of defaulting.

Interest rate risk. Bonds have a fixed face value, known as the “par” value. If bonds are held to maturity, the investor will receive the face value amount back, plus interest that may be set at a fixed or floating rate. The bond’s market price will move up as interest rates move down and it will decline as interest rates rise, so that the market value of the bond may be more or less than the par value. U.S. interest rates have been low for some time. If they move higher, investors who hold a low fixed-rate municipal bond and try to sell it before it matures could lose money because of the lower market value of the bond. 

Inflation risk. Inflation is a general upward movement in prices. Inflation reduces purchasing power, which is a risk for investors receiving a fixed rate of interest. It also can lead to higher interest rates and, in turn, lower market value for existing bonds.

Liquidity risk. This refers to the risk that investors won’t find an active market for the municipal bond, potentially preventing them from buying or selling when they want and obtaining a certain price for the bond. Many investors buy municipal bonds to hold them rather than to trade them, so the market for a particular bond may not be especially liquid and quoted prices for the same bond may differ. 
In addition to the risks, what other factors should you consider when investing in municipal bonds?

Tax implications. Consider consulting a tax professional to discuss the bond's tax implications, including the possibility that your bond may be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax or eligible for state income tax benefits.

Broker compensation. Most brokers are compensated through a markup over the cost of the bond to the firm. This markup might be disclosed on your confirmation statement. If a commission is charged, it will be reported on your confirmation statement. You should ask your broker about markups and commissions.

The background of the broker or adviser selling the bond. A securities salesperson must be properly licensed, and, depending on the type of business the firm conducts, his or her firm must be registered with the MSRB and with FINRA, the SEC or a state securities regulator. You can check out an investment adviser on the SEC's Investment Adviser Public Disclosure website at www.adviserinfo.sec.gov and a broker on FINRA’s BrokerCheck website at www.finra.org/brokercheck
. To confirm MSRB registration, you can review the MSRB’s registered dealers list at http://www.msrb.org/Regulated-Entities/Registration-Status.aspx.

Investor Bulletin: Fixed Income Investments — When Interest Rates Go Up, Prices of Fixed-Rate Bonds Fall
June 26, 2013

The SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Advocacy is issuing this Investor Bulletin to make investors aware that market interest rates and bond prices move in opposite directions—for example, when market interest rates go up, prices of fixed-rate bonds fall.

You may have noticed articles in the media about investors “chasing yield,” the so-called “bond bubble,” or predictions about declines in bond prices. Some of these warnings about a drop in bond prices relate to the potential for a rise in interest rates. Interest rate risk is common to all bonds, particularly bonds with a fixed rate coupon, even U.S. Treasury bonds. (Many bonds pay a fixed rate of interest throughout their term; interest payments are called coupon payments, and the interest rate is called the coupon rate.)

The purpose of this Investor Bulletin is to provide investors with a better understanding of the relationship among market interest rates, bond prices, and yield to maturity of Treasury bonds, in particular, although many of the concepts discussed below generally apply to other types of bonds as well. This Investor Bulletin is a companion piece to our Investor Bulletins on Corporate Bonds, High-Yield Bonds, and Municipal Bonds. For a basic explanation of how bonds operate and their terminology, please see our Investor Bulletin on Corporate Bonds.
The Effect of Market Interest Rates on Bond Prices and Yield

A fundamental principle of bond investing is that market interest rates and bond prices generally move in opposite directions. When market interest rates rise, prices of fixed-rate bonds fall. This phenomenon is known as interest rate risk.

A seesaw, such as the one pictured below, can help you visualize the relationship between market interest rates and bond prices. Imagine that one end of the seesaw represents the market interest rate and the other end represents the price of a fixed-rate bond.
Market Interest Rates and Prices of Fixed-Rate Bonds Move in Opposite Directions

seesaw picture

Higher market interest rates → lower fixed-rate bond prices

Lower market interest rates → higher fixed-rate bond prices

A bond’s yield to maturity shows how much an investor’s money will earn if the bond is held until it matures. For example, as the table below illustrates, let’s say a Treasury bond offers a 3% coupon rate, and a year later market interest rates fall to 2%. The bond will still pay a 3% coupon rate, making it more valuable than new bonds paying just a 2% coupon rate. If you sell the 3% bond before it matures, you will probably find that its price is higher than it was a year ago. Along with the rise in price, however, the yield to maturity of the bond will go down for anyone who buys the bond at the new higher price.

EXAMPLE 1: If Market Interest Rates Decrease by One Percent
Financial Term 	Today 	One Year Later ↓
Market Interest Rate 	3% 	2%
Coupon Rate (semi-annual payments) 	3% 	3%
Face Value 	$1,000 	$1,000
Maturity 	10 years 	9 years remaining
Price 	$1,000 	$1,082
Yield to Maturity 	3% 	2%

Lower market interest rates → higher fixed-rate bond prices → lower fixed-rate bond yields

Now suppose market interest rates rise from 3% to 4%, as the table below illustrates. If you sell the 3% bond, it will be competing with new Treasury bonds that offer a 4% coupon rate. The price of the 3% bond may be more likely to fall. The yield to maturity, however, will rise as the price falls.

EXAMPLE 2: If Market Interest Rates Increase by One Percent
Financial Term 	Today 	One Year Later ↑
Market Interest Rate 	3% 	4%
Coupon Rate (semi-annual payments) 	3% 	3%
Face Value 	$1,000 	$1,000
Maturity 	10 years 	9 years remaining
Price 	$1,000 	$925
Yield to Maturity 	3% 	4%

Higher market interest rates → lower fixed-rate bond prices → higher fixed-rate bond yields

For a more detailed explanation of yield to maturity, including additional examples, please see our Investor Bulletin on Corporate Bonds.
The Effect of Coupon Rates on Interest Rate Risk

Interest rate risk is common to all bonds, even U.S. Treasury bonds. A bond’s maturity and coupon rate generally affect how much its price will change as a result of changes in market interest rates.

If two bonds offer different coupon rates while all of their other characteristics (e.g., maturity and credit quality) are the same, the bond with the lower coupon rate generally will experience a greater decrease in value as market interest rates rise. Bonds offering lower coupon rates generally will have higher interest rate risk than similar bonds that offer higher coupon rates.

Lower fixed-rate bond coupon rates → higher interest rate risk

Higher fixed-rate bond coupon rates → lower interest rate risk

For example, imagine one bond that has a coupon rate of 2% while another bond has a coupon rate of 4%. All other features of the two bonds—when they mature, their level of credit risk, and so on—are the same. If market interest rates rise, then the price of the bond with the 2% coupon rate will fall more than that of the bond with the 4% coupon rate.

Remember:

Lower market interest rates → higher fixed-rate bond prices → lower fixed-rate bond yields
→ higher interest rate risk to rising market interest rates

Because of this relationship, it is particularly important for investors to consider interest rate risk when they purchase bonds in a low-interest rate environment.
The Effect of Maturity on Interest Rate Risk and Coupon Rates

A bond’s maturity is the specific date in the future at which the face value of the bond will be repaid to the investor. A bond may mature in a few months or in a few years. Maturity can also affect interest rate risk. The longer the bond’s maturity, the greater the risk that the bond’s value could be impacted by changing interest rates prior to maturity, which may have a negative effect on the price of the bond. Therefore, bonds with longer maturities generally have higher interest rate risk than similar bonds with shorter maturities.

Longer maturity → higher interest rate risk

Shorter maturity → lower interest rate risk

To compensate investors for this interest rate risk, long-term bonds generally offer higher coupon rates than short-term bonds of the same credit quality.

Longer maturity → higher interest rate risk → higher coupon rate

Shorter maturity → lower interest rate risk → lower coupon rate

If you intend to hold a bond to maturity, the day-to-day fluctuations in the bond’s price may not be as important to you. The bond’s price may change, but you will be paid the stated interest rate, as well as the face value of the bond, upon maturity. On the other hand, instead of holding the bond to maturity, you might be able to sell the bond and reinvest the proceeds into another bond that pays a higher coupon rate.
All Bonds are Subject to Interest Rate Risk—Even If the Bonds Are Insured or Government Guaranteed

The seesaw effect between interest rates and bond prices applies to all bonds, even to those that are insured or guaranteed by the U.S. government. When the U.S. government guarantees a bond, it guarantees that it will make interest payments on the bond on time and that it will pay the principal in full when the bond matures.  There is a misconception that, if a bond is insured or is a U.S. government obligation, the bond will not lose value. In fact, the U.S. government does not guarantee the market price or value of the bond if you sell the bond before it matures. This is because the market price or value of the bond can change over time based on several factors, including market interest rates.


Mutual Funds
What are mutual funds?

A mutual fund is a company that pools money from many investors and invests the money in securities such as stocks, bonds, and short-term debt. The combined holdings of the mutual fund are known as its portfolio. Investors buy shares in mutual funds. Each share represents an investor’s part ownership in the fund and the income it generates.

Why do people buy mutual funds?
What types of mutual funds are there?
What are the benefits and risks of mutual funds?
How to buy and sell mutual funds
Understanding fees
Avoiding fraud
Additional information
Why do people buy mutual funds?

Mutual funds are a popular choice among investors because they generally offer the following features:

    Professional Management. The fund managers do the research for you. They select the securities and monitor the performance.
    Diversification or “Don’t put all your eggs in one basket.” Mutual funds typically invest in a range of companies and industries. This helps to lower your risk if one company fails.
    Affordability. Most mutual funds set a relatively low dollar amount for initial investment and subsequent purchases.
    Liquidity. Mutual fund investors can easily redeem their shares at any time, for the current net asset value (NAV) plus any redemption fees.

What types of mutual funds are there?

Most mutual funds fall into one of four main categories – money market funds, bond funds, stock funds, and target date funds. Each type has different features, risks, and rewards.

    Money market funds have relatively low risks. By law, they can invest only in certain high-quality, short-term investments issued by U.S. corporations, and federal, state and local governments.
    Bond funds have higher risks than money market funds because they typically aim to produce higher returns. Because there are many different types of bonds, the risks and rewards of bond funds can vary dramatically.
    Stock funds invest in corporate stocks. Not all stock funds are the same. Some examples are:
        Growth funds focus on stocks that may not pay a regular dividend but have potential for above-average financial gains.
        Income funds invest in stocks that pay regular dividends.
        Index funds track a particular market index such as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.
        Sector funds specialize in a particular industry segment.
    Target date funds hold a mix of stocks, bonds, and other investments. Over time, the mix gradually shifts according to the fund’s strategy. Target date funds, sometimes known as lifecycle funds, are designed for individuals with particular retirement dates in mind.

What are the benefits and risks of mutual funds?

Mutual funds offer professional investment management and potential diversification. They also offer three ways to earn money:

    Dividend Payments. A fund may earn income from dividends on stock or interest on bonds. The fund then pays the shareholders nearly all the income, less expenses.
    Capital Gains Distributions. The price of the securities in a fund may increase. When a fund sells a security that has increased in price, the fund has a capital gain. At the end of the year, the fund distributes these capital gains, minus any capital losses, to investors.
    Increased NAV. If the market value of a fund’s portfolio increases, after deducting expenses, then the value of the fund and its shares increases. The higher NAV reflects the higher value of your investment.

All funds carry some level of risk. With mutual funds, you may lose some or all of the money you invest because the securities held by a fund can go down in value. Dividends or interest payments may also change as market conditions change.

A fund’s past performance is not as important as you might think because past performance does not predict future returns. But past performance can tell you how volatile or stable a fund has been over a period of time. The more volatile the fund, the higher the investment risk.
How to buy and sell mutual funds

Investors buy mutual fund shares from the fund itself or through a broker for the fund, rather than from other investors. The price that investors pay for the mutual fund is the fund’s per share net asset value plus any fees charged at the time of purchase, such as sales loads.

Mutual fund shares are “redeemable,” meaning investors can sell the shares back to the fund at any time. The fund usually must send you the payment within seven days.

Before buying shares in a mutual fund, read the prospectus carefully. The prospectus contains information about the mutual fund’s investment objectives, risks, performance, and expenses. See How to Read a Mutual Fund Prospectus Part 1 (Investor Objective, Strategies, and Risks), Part 2 (Fee Table and Performance), and Part 3 (Management, Shareholder Information, and Statement of Additional Information) to learn more about key information in a prospectus and How to Read a Mutual Fund Shareholder Report to learn more about key information in a shareholder report. 
Understanding fees

As with any business, running a mutual fund involves costs. Funds pass along these costs to investors by charging fees and expenses. Fees and expenses vary from fund to fund. A fund with high costs must perform better than a low-cost fund to generate the same returns for you.

Even small differences in fees can mean large differences in returns over time. For example, if you invested $10,000 in a fund with a 10% annual return, and annual operating expenses of 1.5%, after 20 years you would have roughly $49,725. If you invested in a fund with the same performance and expenses of 0.5%, after 20 years you would end up with $60,858.

It takes only minutes to use a mutual fund cost calculator to compute how the costs of different mutual funds add up over time and eat into your returns. See Mutual Fees and Expenses to learn about some of the most common mutual fund fees and expenses.
Avoiding fraud

By law, each mutual fund is required to file a prospectus and regular shareholder reports with the SEC. Before you invest, be sure to read the prospectus and the required shareholder reports. Additionally, the investment portfolios of mutual funds are managed by separate entities know as “investment advisers” that are registered with the SEC. Always check that the investment adviser is registered before investing.

Updated Investor Bulletin: Focus on Money Market Funds
Jan. 12, 2017

The SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Advocacy is issuing this Investor Bulletin to help educate investors about money market funds, including money market funds’ investment objectives and risks. For additional assistance, investors can call the SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Advocacy at 1-800-SEC-0330, or ask a question using this online form. 

What are money market funds?

Money market funds, sometimes called money funds, are a type of mutual fund that has relatively low risks compared to other mutual funds and most other investments and historically has had lower returns. Money market funds invest in high quality, short-term debt securities and pay dividends that generally reflect short-term interest rates. Many investors use money market funds to store cash or as an alternative to investing in the stock market.

Money market funds, like all mutual funds, are redeemable on demand. This means that investors can generally sell their shares back to a money market fund on any business day at the net asset value or NAV. The NAV is the per-share value of a fund’s assets minus its liabilities. Some types of money market funds – government and retail money market funds – are allowed to try to keep their NAV at a stable $1.00 per share. These funds do this by using special pricing and valuation conventions when valuing the fund assets. Other money market funds –institutional prime money market funds – may not use these special conventions and must float their NAV like other mutual funds. This means that, although these money market funds still try to keep a fairly constant price, they must allow their daily share price (the NAV) to fluctuate with the current market-based value of fund assets. Before buying shares of a money market fund, investors should understand which type of money market fund they are purchasing.

What types of money market funds are there?

There are many kinds of money market funds, including ones that invest primarily in government securities, tax-exempt municipal securities, or corporate and bank debt securities. In addition, money market funds are often structured to cater to different types of investors. Some funds are intended for retail investors, while other funds that typically require high minimum investments are intended for institutional investors. The rules governing money market funds vary based on the type of money market fund.

For example, money market funds that primarily invest in a variety of taxable short-term corporate and bank debt securities are generally referred to as prime funds. Government money market funds are defined as money market funds that invest 99.5% or more of their total assets in very liquid investments, namely, cash, government securities, and/or repurchase agreements that are collateralized fully with government securities. Retail money market funds are defined as money market funds that are generally limited to natural persons. As noted above, government and retail money market funds are permitted to use special pricing and valuation conventions to try and keep their NAV at a stable $1.00 per share, whereas institutional prime money market funds are required to float their NAV like other mutual funds.

What are the risks of investing in money market funds?

As discussed above, on the one hand, government and retail money market funds try to keep their NAV at a constant $1.00 per share using special pricing and valuation conventions. If one of these money market fund’s NAV deviates by more than half a cent from $1.00, the fund would have to re-price its shares to something other than $1.00, which is known as “breaking the buck.” Therefore, if it deviates by more than half a cent below $1.00 (as one money market fund did in 2008 due to losses in the underlying investments), investors in the fund will likely lose money. On the other hand, institutional prime money market funds must allow their NAV to float. As with other mutual fund investments, the value of these fund shares generally decreases or increases as the money market fund assets decrease or increase in value, respectively. If the value of the fund shares decrease, investors in the fund will likely lose money.

The yield of money market funds changes over time and generally reflects changes in short-term interest rates. The yield is income that is distributed to shareholders as dividends which many shareholders reinvest into the money market fund. Historically, the returns for money market funds have been lower than for other types of mutual funds. Moreover, if short-term interest rates are very low, it is possible that fees charged by the fund will exceed the income earned on fund investments, in which case fund investors may face losses. As with any investment, you should consider the impact of fees on your investment. 

Because the yield for money market funds can be low, there is also the risk that inflation will outpace and erode investment returns over time. 

What tools can money market funds use in times of market stress?

Liquidity Fees and Redemption Gates. In times of market stress, a run on the fund or heavy redemptions can mean that investors that sell early in the run may get more money for their shares at the expense of investors who sell later. To try and keep this from happening, a money market fund’s board of directors can determine to charge fees on redemptions (liquidity fees) and can even suspend redemptions temporarily (redemption gates) in certain circumstances. Although these tools can help stabilize the value of a money market investment in times of market stress, when they are used, the investment would be less liquid. All money market funds except government money market funds are allowed, and sometimes required (unless the board determines otherwise), to use these tools when certain circumstances occur. Government money market funds can voluntarily opt into using these tools when certain circumstances occur, if the ability to do so is disclosed in the fund prospectus.

Permanent Suspension of Redemptions. If certain circumstances occur, money market funds are permitted (but not required) to permanently suspend redemptions and liquidate (or close) the money market fund. This tool is meant to help facilitate an orderly liquidation of the fund.

What is the difference between money market funds and money market depository accounts?

Money market funds are different from money market depository accounts offered by banks and should not be confused with them. Money market depository accounts are guaranteed by the FDIC and therefore the principal in that deposit account is fully protected up to the dollar limits established by law. An investment in a money market fund, however, has no FDIC guarantee.

Target Date Retirement Funds
May 7, 2010

Investing for retirement can be complex. When deciding where to invest, you may need to make a variety of decisions, including how to balance the risk of losing money with the desire to increase your returns, keeping in mind that inflation may reduce the purchasing power of your savings and you or your spouse or partner may live longer in retirement than you expect. Recognizing this, a number of companies offer “target date retirement funds,” sometimes referred to as “target date funds” or “lifecycle funds.”

These funds are designed to make investing for retirement more convenient by automatically changing your investment mix or asset allocation over time. Asset allocation involves dividing an investment portfolio among different asset categories, such as stocks, bonds, and cash investments. Once you select a target date fund, the managers of the fund make all the decisions about asset allocation.

Target date funds are often available through 401(k) plans. Some 401(k) plans use these funds as the default investment for plan participants who have not selected their investments under the plan. Both before and after investing in a target date fund, consider carefully whether the fund is right for you.
Target Date Retirement Fund Basics

Target date funds, which are often mutual funds, hold a mix of stocks, bonds, and other investments. Over time, the mix gradually shifts according to the fund’s investment strategy. Target date funds are designed to be long-term investments for individuals with particular retirement dates in mind. The name of the fund often refers to its target date. For example, you might see funds with names like “Portfolio 2030,” “Retirement Fund 2030,” or “Target 2030″ that are designed for individuals who intend to retire in or near the year 2030.

However, target date funds, even if they share the same target date, for example 2030, may have very different investment strategies and risks. They do not guarantee that you will have sufficient retirement income at the target date, and you can lose money. Target date funds do not eliminate the need for you to decide, before investing and from time to time thereafter, whether the fund fits your financial situation. Even if you plan to retire in 2030, you may decide, based on your investment objectives, tolerance for risk, and other assets, that a 2020, 2040, or other target date fund is more appropriate for you. Or you may decide that you don’t want to invest in a target date fund.

Most target date funds are designed so that the fund’s mix of investments will automatically change in a way that is intended to become more conservative as you approach the target date. Typically, the funds shift over time from a mix with a lot of stock investments in the beginning to a mix weighted more toward bonds.

Remember that all investments have some level of risk, regardless of whether they are stocks, bonds, or something else. Even with the same type of investment, some stocks have less risk than other stocks, and some bonds have more risk than other bonds. Although bonds are often considered to be less risky than stocks, some types of bonds may be riskier than stocks.

You should evaluate the investments and decide how much risk you can tolerate. Your risk tolerance will likely change as you get closer to retirement, so it is critical to pay attention to what the target date fund invests in over time. Also, be aware that while a target date fund discloses what it invests in and how the investment mix will shift over time, the fund manager can make changes in the future without your approval – even if those changes will create more risk. Thus, you should monitor your target date fund’s investments over time.
Evaluating a Target Date Retirement Fund

As with any investment, evaluate a target date fund carefully before investing. The target date may be a useful starting point in selecting a fund, but you should not rely solely on the date when choosing a fund or deciding to remain invested in one. You should consider the fund’s asset allocation over the whole life of the fund and at its most conservative investment mix, as well as the fund’s risk level, performance, and fees. This information is available in the fund’s prospectus.

As noted above, funds with the same target date may have different investment strategies and levels of risk. These variations may occur before the target date, and also at the target date and after it. Some target date funds may not reach their most conservative investment mix until 20 or 30 years after the target date, as shown in Example 1 below. Others may reach their most conservative investment mix at the target date or soon after, as shown in Example 2 below.

The fund in Example 1 holds 60% of its investments in stocks at the target date and 40% in bonds. The investment in stocks decreases until 25 years after the target date when it reaches an investment mix with 30% in stocks.
Example 1

The fund in Example 1 holds 60% of its investments in stocks at the target date and 40% in bonds. The investment in stocks decreases until 25 years after the target date when it reaches an investment mix with 30% in stocks.

The fund in Example 2 holds 25% in stocks at the target date, and reaches its final investment mix with 20% in stocks five years later. The fund in Example 2 also holds cash investments (such as money market funds) as part of its mix.
Example 2

The fund in Example 2 holds 25% in stocks at the target date, and reaches its final investment mix with 20% in stocks five years later. The fund in Example 2 also holds cash investments (such as money market funds) as part of its mix.

Target date funds also may have different investment results and may charge different fees, even with the same target date. Often a target date fund invests in other mutual funds, and fees may be charged by both the target date fund and the other funds. Keep in mind that a fund with high costs must perform better than a low-cost fund to generate the same returns for you. Even small differences in fees can translate into large differences in returns over time.

You should also consider how a target date fund fits in with your other investments. If you have other stock, bond, or mutual fund investments, you should carefully examine your overall asset allocation.

In summary, before investing in a target date fund:

    Consider your investment style. Do you want to play an active role in managing your investments, or do you prefer the more hands-off approach of a target date fund? Keep in mind, however, that even with a target date fund, it is important to monitor the fund’s investments over time.
    Look at the fund’s prospectus to see where the fund will invest your money. Do you understand the strategy and risks of the fund, or of any underlying mutual funds held as investments?
    Understand how the investments will change over time. Are you comfortable with the fund’s investment mix over time? In particular, make sure you understand when the fund will reach its most conservative investment mix and whether that will occur at or after the target date. Does your level of risk tolerance match how aggressive or conservative it is?
    Take into account when you will access the money in the fund. How does the fund’s investment mix at the target date and thereafter fit with your plans for the future, whether they are to withdraw your money at retirement, or to continue to invest?
    Examine the fund’s fees. Do you understand the costs for both the target date fund and for any mutual funds in which the target date fund invests?

How to Read a Mutual Fund Prospectus (Part 1 of 3: Investment Objective, Strategies, and Risks)
June 13, 2016

The SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Advocacy is issuing a series of three Investor Bulletins to help inform investors about key information in a prospectus. You should note, however, that a prospectus contains additional information that may assist investors in making an investment decision. 

Introduction

Mutual funds use a document called a prospectus to disclose information about the fund to investors.  The SEC requires mutual funds to include important information in the prospectus, including:

    the fund’s investment objectives or goals;
    its strategies for reaching those goals;
    the principal risks of investing in the fund;
    the fund’s fees and expenses; and
    its past performance.

SEC rules require mutual funds to provide a copy of the fund’s prospectus before or with the delivery of fund shares to investors, but you can - and should - also request and read a prospectus before making an investment decision.  You can obtain prospectuses from the SEC’s Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (“EDGAR”) database or directly from the fund (most funds provide their prospectus on their websites and also have toll free numbers where you can request a copy).  Funds also may provide a “summary prospectus,” which is generally just a few pages long, but indicates where you can obtain the full prospectus.

Investment Objective

The investment objective of a fund frequently will be:  (1) capital appreciation; (2) income; or (3) a combination of the two.   

    Funds that seek capital appreciation primarily invest in assets the fund expects to increase in value. 
    Funds that seek income primarily invest in securities that produce income, such as bonds that pay interest or securities that pay dividends.
    Funds that seek a combination of growth and income generally invest in equity securities that pay dividends or else invest in a mix of equity securities and bonds.  

Generally, funds that seek capital appreciation are considered a more aggressive investment strategy (i.e., have the potential for greater returns, but also the possibility of greater losses), while funds that seek income are considered a more conservative investment strategy. 

Principal Strategies

The principal strategies of the fund tell you how the fund intends to achieve its investment objective.  These strategies indicate the approach the fund’s adviser takes in deciding which securities to buy or sell.  For example, the fund may choose to concentrate in one or more industries, geographic regions, or types of securities.  In addition, some funds may be actively managed while others seek to replicate the performance of a specified index.  Although a fund’s name often suggests that the fund focuses on a particular type of investment, you should not rely upon the fund’s name without examining the prospectus further. 

Some funds may also reserve the right to take a “temporary defensive position.”  These funds may invest 100% of assets temporarily in cash or other relatively safe instruments in anticipation of a market downturn that could adversely affect fund performance, even if that would not normally be consistent with the fund’s primary investment strategy.

Risks

All investments in funds involve risk of financial loss.  The reward for taking on risk is the potential for a greater investment return.  An investor with a high-risk tolerance is generally willing to risk losing money in order to seek larger investment gains than those typically achieved by a lower-risk investment.  On the other hand, an investor with a low-risk tolerance may favor investments in funds that are generally more stable in value. 

When reading a fund prospectus, it is important to determine if the fund satisfies your investment objective and matches your risk tolerance, as well as the risks in your overall portfolio.  Your risk tolerance depends upon several factors, including your financial situation, age, and family obligations.

The types of risks to which a fund is subject vary considerably with the nature of its investments.  Some of the more common risks for funds include:

    Market risk.   The fund may incur losses due to declines in the markets in which it invests.
    Business or Issuer risk.  The fund may invest in a company that goes out of business, suffers financial problems, or otherwise does not perform as expected, especially if the fund primarily invests in companies without an established record.
    Credit risk.  The fund may invest in bonds or other debt instruments from an issuer who is unable to pay interest payments as scheduled or repay the principal.
    Interest rate risk.  The value of the fund’s investments in bonds or other debt instruments may decrease if interest rates rise.
    Inflation risk.  The value of the fund’s investments in bonds or other debt instruments also may not keep track with price increases from inflation.
    Concentration risk.  The fund may concentrate its investments in a particular industry, sector or geographical area, which can result in a less diversified portfolio that may be subject to greater volatility in performance than a fund that does not concentrate its investments.

How to Read a Mutual Fund Prospectus (Part 2 of 3: Fee Table and Performance)
June 13, 2016

The SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Advocacy is issuing a series of three Investor Bulletins to help inform investors about key information in a prospectus. You should note, however, that a prospectus contains additional information that may assist investors in making an investment decision.

Fee Table

When you consider investing in a fund, its fees and expenses are an important factor to consider. A fund with high costs must have higher investment returns than a low-cost fund to generate the same returns for you.  Even small differences in fees can add up to substantial differences in your investment returns over time.  Prospectuses are required to present fees and expenses in a standardized format to help investors more easily compare them across different funds. 

The prospectus will include:  (1) shareholder transaction expenses, which are charges you pay directly, such as sales charges that might be charged when you buy and sell shares in the fund; (2) annual fund operating expenses, which are ongoing charges that are paid by the fund but that you pay indirectly each year you are invested in the fund; and (3) a hypothetical example that shows the estimated expenses that you will pay for investing in the fund over different time periods. 

    Shareholder transaction expenses include sales charges (also known as “loads” or “commissions”), which are generally paid to the investment professionals who sold the fund to you to compensate them for their services.   You can also purchase shares of certain funds without sales charges directly from those funds (“no-load” funds) without the assistance of an investment professional.  Shareholder transaction expenses can also include additional costs, such as account maintenance fees that may be charged if the size of your investment drops below a minimum amount.
    Annual fund operating expenses are frequently referred to as the “expense ratio,” because they indicate the percentage of net assets that are used by the fund each year to pay for fees and expenses.  These fees and expenses include management fees, “rule 12b-1” fees, and other expenses.  Management fees are paid to compensate the investment adviser for determining what securities the fund should invest in and providing related services. “Rule 12b-1” fees are paid out of fund assets for marketing and sales costs.  Other expenses include miscellaneous expenses such as auditing, legal, custodial, and transfer agency fees.  Funds may also temporarily waive (or stop charging) some of these fees to attract or maintain investors , although these fees may be charged again or recouped in the future.
    The hypothetical example will show the estimated cost of owning the fund in actual dollar amounts (instead of in percentages) based on a hypothetical investment of $10,000 over the course of one, three, five and ten years, both where the investor redeems his or her shares at the end of those periods or instead holds those shares through those periods.  The hypothetical example reflects both the operating and shareholder transaction expenses you will pay and illustrates how minimizing those expenses can help maximize the rate of return from your investments. 

Funds will often offer different share classes that invest in the same “pool” or investment portfolio of securities but have different sales charges and operating expenses.  For example, class A shares might have a 4% front-end sales load but no ongoing rule 12b-1 fees, and thus might be a good fit for a “buy and hold” investor who plans to remain invested for many years until retirement.  In contrast, class C shares might have no front-end sales load but instead have a 1% annual rule 12b-1 fee, and thus be a better fit for a short-term investor who plans to sell quickly (in this case, within four years of purchase).   Consider your personal situation when deciding which share class is right for you. 

For more information about fees and expenses, including a chart showing how different fees and expenses would affect a hypothetical investment of $100,000 over 20 years and information about front end sales loads, deferred sales loads, and redemption fees, please refer to Investor Bulletin:  Mutual Fund Fees and Expenses.    

Performance 

When you consider investing in a fund, its investment performance is another factor to consider.  However, past performance is no guarantee of future results. 

The prospectus will include:  (1) a bar chart displaying the fund’s investment performance for the past ten years (or since the fund’s creation if the fund has less than ten years of performance history); (2) a table comparing the fund’s performance over the past ten years relative to a broad-based securities market index; and (3) the fund’s performance for its best and worst calendar quarters.

    The bar chart will depict the fund’s historic performance, and will demonstrate how consistent (or not) the fund’s returns have been. 
    The table will compare the performance of the fund to that of the broader market (as represented by a market index).  In some cases, the fund will also include a comparison to a more narrowly based index the fund believes serve as a better benchmark for comparative purposes.
    The fund’s performance for its best and worst calendar quarters indicates how volatile its returns have been.

How to Read a Mutual Fund Prospectus (Part 3 of 3: Management, Shareholder Information, and Statement of Additional Information)
June 13, 2016

The SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Advocacy is issuing a series of three Investor Bulletins to help inform investors about key information in a prospectus. You should note, however, that a prospectus contains additional information that may assist investors in making an investment decision.

Management

The management of the fund is an important element in determining its investment success.  The prospectus will describe:  (1) the investment adviser (and any sub-advisers the investment adviser may hire) and (2) the individual portfolio manager(s) employed by the investment adviser.

    The investment adviser (also known as the “investment manager” or “management company”) is generally the company that provides portfolio management services to the fund.  The investment adviser manages the fund’s investments according to the fund’s investment objectives and investment policies.  In return for these services, the fund pays the investment adviser an investment advisory or management fee, which is a component of the fund’s expense ratio.  Some funds may also have a sub-adviser to manage investments for all or part of the portfolio or for all investment decisions relating to a certain type of investment (such as international equities). 
    The portfolio managers are the individuals who work for the investment adviser and make the day-to-day decisions about what investments to buy and sell.  The prospectus generally will provide you with the name(s) of the portfolio managers and additional information such as their current title, prior work experience, and length of time with the fund.  You should consider the potential effect of changes in portfolio managers when reviewing a fund’s past performance. 

Shareholder Information

The prospectus will contain other information for shareholders, including information about:  (1) buying and selling fund shares; (2) distributing dividends; (3) and exchanging shares between funds. 

    Buying and selling shares.  Typically, funds will permit investors to buy and sell shares by check, wire transfer, or telephone, or by contacting a broker.  Purchases and redemptions are made at the net asset value next calculated by the fund, in other words, the next net asset value per share that is calculated after receiving your order.  A fund’s net asset value per share is the market value of the fund’s assets, minus fund expenses and any other liabilities, divided by the number of fund shares outstanding.  Many funds calculate net asset value per share each business day at 4 pm Eastern Standard Time, which is generally when the New York Stock Exchange closes.  Funds are required to pay redemptions within seven calendar days, but some funds pay redemptions within one or two business days.   Some funds may also have minimum investment amounts to open an account or account balance minimums that shareholders must maintain to avoid paying account maintenance fees or having their account closed.  Many funds will allow you to automatically invest in the fund by having money transferred regularly from your bank account to the fund.
    Dividend distributions.  Typically, funds will offer several options for payments of dividends from the fund’s portfolio holdings.  For example, many funds will allow investors to withdraw their dividends (typically by having dividends deposited in a bank account) or to automatically reinvest the dividends in the fund. 
    Fund family exchanges.  Many funds are offered within a family of funds and you may be able to exchange your shares in a fund with shares of another fund in the same fund family.  In this case, exchanges can often be made with a telephone call or by providing instructions online, instead of having to fill out paperwork as would normally be required.  An exchange might be subject to a small fee, and may require you to pay taxes.

Statement of Additional Information

Although the prospectus provides much information needed to make an informed investment decision, the statement of additional information (“SAI”) provides more detailed disclosures if you want more information.  The SAI generally includes information about:  (1) the history and description of the fund; (2) fund officers and directors; and (3) other topics.

    The fund description will include information about the fund’s investment strategies and policies (for example, policies on borrowing and making loans and policies that the fund considers “fundamental”).  Fundamental policies may not be changed without shareholder approval, and may include the fund’s investment objective.
    The disclosure about fund officers and directors will include their names, positions, length of service to the fund, and work history for the past five years.  It will also describe the leadership structure of the board and the amount of equity securities  owned by each director in the fund and in funds in the fund family that are overseen by that director. 
    Other disclosures include information about service providers (including the investment adviser and underwriter), brokerage commissions, tax matters, and financial statements.

Funds must provide you the SAI without charge if you request it. You can obtain an SAI by calling the toll-free number that appears on the back cover page of the prospectus, or by searching the SEC’s Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (“EDGAR”) database.

Conclusion

Mutual fund prospectuses provide you with important information so you understand how the fund works and can easily compare it with other funds.  If you wish to make an informed investment decision, you should read the prospectus before buying or selling shares in a mutual fund.  If you would like additional information, you can obtain an SAI free of charge from the fund or from the SEC’s EDGAR database. 

Investor Bulletin: How to Read a Mutual Fund Shareholder Report
April 3, 2013

The SEC's Office of Investor Education and Advocacy is issuing this Investor Bulletin to educate individual investors about mutual fund shareholder reports.
Annual and Semiannual Reports

Mutual funds that are registered with the SEC must send reports to their shareholders on a semiannual basis. The semiannual report covers the first six months of the fund's fiscal year, while the annual report covers the fund's entire fiscal year. Mutual funds that are registered with the SEC prepare their own shareholder reports and file them with the SEC. So long as these funds disclose the information that the SEC requires in the shareholder report, they can decide how to organize and present the information within the report.

This investor bulletin focuses primarily on the annual report; however, many of the considerations also apply to the semiannual report. Think of these shareholder reports as a "report card" on the fund's progress. Reading these reports can help you determine how well a fund has met its goals and investment strategies during the period covered in the report.
What Information Can I Find in a Shareholder Report?

The table below identifies select information required to be disclosed in: (1) both the annual and semiannual report; and (2) the annual report only.
Annual and Semiannual Report

Expense example showing the cost in dollars for a hypothetical $1,000 investment over the period covered by the report.
Graphical representation of holdings—table, chart, or graph of holdings by category (e.g., type of security, industry sector, geographic region, credit quality, or maturity).

Financial statements:

    Annual report—audited financial statements, including a complete or summary (top 50) list of holdings.
    Semiannual report—financial statements need not be audited.

Condensed financial information (or financial highlights).
Remuneration or compensation paid to directors, officers, and others.
Statement regarding basis for approval of investment advisory contract—discussion of the reasons the board approved any investment advisory contract during the period covered by the report.

 
Annual Report Only

Performance information:

    Management's discussion of fund performance;
    Line graph comparing the performance during the last 10 years (or for the life of the fund, if shorter) of a hypothetical $10,000 initial investment against an index; and
    Table showing the fund's returns for 1-, 5-, and 10-year (or for the life of the fund, if shorter) periods.

Note: Although performance information is required for the annual report only, many funds include performance information in their semiannual report as well.
Management information about directors and officers, including their names, ages, length of time at fund, principal occupations over the past 5 years, and responsibilities.

Availability of additional information about fund directors:

    Statement explaining that more information about fund directors is available in the Statement of Additional Information or online or by calling a toll-free telephone number.

Investors generally read the shareholder report to determine how well a fund has met its goals and investment strategies during the past six-month period (semiannual report) or the past fiscal year (annual report). Following are descriptions of several items in a shareholder report. The order of the items listed may vary from one report to another.
Performance Information

As shown in the table above, the performance information typically consists of three components: (1) management's discussion of fund performance; (2) a line graph comparing the performance during the last 10 years (or for the life of the fund, if shorter) of a hypothetical $10,000 initial investment against an index; and (3) a table showing the fund's returns for 1-, 5-, and 10-year (or for the life of the fund, if shorter) periods.

    Management's Discussion of Fund Performance.

    You will find fund management's discussion near the front of the annual report. This is management's opportunity to discuss the fund's performance during the fiscal year in light of market conditions and other factors that may have influenced the fund's investment return for the year. In that discussion, management usually will point out which holdings of the fund contributed significantly to the fund's performance and which holdings detracted significantly from that performance.
    Line graph.

    Also near the front of the annual report is a line graph comparing the performance during the last 10 years (or for the life of the fund, if shorter) of a hypothetical $10,000 initial investment in the fund against an index. The line graph will be some variation of the generic line graph pictured below:

    Hypothetical Growth of $10,000 Investment over 10 Years

    The graph will show the progress of at least two lines over a ten-year period. One line will represent the growth or decline in value of a hypothetical $10,000 initial investment in the fund during the last 10 years (or for the life of the fund, if shorter). Another line will represent the performance of an appropriate broad-based securities market index (for example, the S&P 500 index) during the last 10 years (showing the growth or decline in value of the hypothetical $10,000 had it been invested in a fund corresponding to that index). There may be additional lines representing other indexes, including those more narrowly-based that reflect the market sectors in which the fund invests or a non-securities index such as the Consumer Price Index, so long as the comparison is not misleading.

    A quick glance at the graph will tell you whether the fund's performance has been steady or volatile over the 10-year period (or over the life of the fund, if shorter). For example, if the slope of the line is gradual, with occasional ups and downs, it suggests that fund performance has been relatively stable. If, on the other hand, the slope of the line is choppy, with numerous peaks and valleys, it suggests that the fund has been volatile and has experienced frequent variations in performance. Compare the slope of that line with the line representing the index to which the fund is being compared. How closely does the fund's performance track that of the index?
    Performance Table.

    Underneath the line graph is a table showing the fund's annualized (or average annual) returns for 1-, 5-, and 10-year (or for the life of the fund, if shorter) periods. Below is an example of this type of table:
    Average Annual Total Returns
    Periods Ended December 31, 20XX
      	One Year 	Five Years 	Ten Years 	Final value of a $10,000 investment
    XYZ Fund 	1.08% 	0.31% 	3.84% 	$14,575
    Benchmark/Index 	1.08 	0.29 	3.87 	14,616


    Pay close attention to the fund's 5- and 10-year returns. If the fund's returns were stellar in the past year but unimpressive in the past five or 10 years (or over the life of the fund, if shorter), it is possible that the past year's outperformance will not last. On the other hand, if the fund experienced steady returns in the past five or 10 years, but suffered a sharp loss in the past year, it may be unclear as to whether the recent loss signals the beginning of a trend or is an isolated occurrence. Just because a fund had one good year does not mean that positive investment returns will continue. Remember, past performance is not necessarily an indication of future results.

Expense Example

The expense example is calculated using a fund's expense ratio for the preceding six months but does not include the impact of sales loads, if any. The expense example consists of two different tables. The first table shows the actual cost in dollars for a hypothetical $1,000 investment in the fund over a six-month period. Below is an example of this type of table:
Six Months Ended January 31, 2013
XYZ Fund
Based on Actual Fund Return 	
Beginning Account Value 7/31/2012
	
Ending Account Value 1/31/2013
	
Expenses Paid During Period
ABC shares 	
$1,000
	
$1,031.75
	
$1.23
DEF shares 	
1,000
	
1,032.25
	
0.51
Institutional shares 	
1,000
	
1,032.55
	
0.41

According to the example above, if you owned class ABC shares in the hypothetical XYZ Fund, you would have paid $1.23 in expenses for every $1,000 that you owned in the fund during the six-month period identified at the top of thetable. To find out how much your expense was during that six-month period, round the value of the shares you own to the nearest multiple of $1,000 and multiply by the expense amount.

For example, if you had approximately $25,000 invested in the ABC share class of the hypothetical XYZ Fund, your expenses would have been: 25 x $1.23 = $30.75 over the six-month period.

The second table in the expense example shows the cost in dollars for a hypothetical $1,000 investment in the fund over the six-month period based on a hypothetical 5% yearly return and not the actual return of the fund during that period. Below is an example of this type of table:
Six Months Ended January 31, 2013
XYZ Fund
Based on Hypothetical 5% Yearly Return 	
Beginning Account Value 7/31/2012
	
Ending Account Value 1/31/2013
	
Expenses Paid During Period
ABC shares 	
$1,000
	
$1,024.00
	
$1.22
DEF shares 	
1,000
	
1,024.70
	
0.51
Institutional shares 	
1,000
	
1,024.80
	
0.41

Because funds are required to use the same hypothetical performance in calculating their expenses for the period covered by the shareholder report, this second table makes it possible for you to compare the expenses of this fund with that of other funds. For example, the table above shows that the expenses paid during the six-month period for class ABC shares—assuming a 5% annual return—would have been $1.22 per $1,000 invested. You can compare that expense with that of a completely different fund to determine which fund has higher operating expenses. If, for example, that other fund showed an expense ratio of $1.55 per $1,000 invested in a similar share class, that other fund generally would be considered more expensive than the XYZ Fund (as stated above, these examples do not include sales loads).
Financial Statements

The annual report contains audited financial statements, including a complete or summary (top 50) list of portfolio holdings. This is where you can learn, among other things, what assets the fund holds (or at least the 50 largest individual holdings), the number of shares owned of each asset, and their market value. Regardless of whether the financial statements include the complete list or a summary of portfolio holdings, you can find the full list in the fund's SEC filings, which are publicly available through the SEC's EDGAR database (www.sec.gov/edgar/searchedgar/mutualsearch.htm). Also, if the fund posts its complete list of portfolio holdings online, you may be able to locate that list on the fund's website identified in its annual report.

As you review the portfolio holdings, consider the following questions:

    Are the fund's holdings, as reflected in the financial statements, consistent with the fund's investment objectives and strategy as stated in the fund's prospectus?
    Are the fund's holdings consistent with your expectations, based on the fund's name, investment objectives, strategy, and principal risks as disclosed in the fund's prospectus?
    Do you detect any "style drift," meaning the fund has strayed from its stated investment objectives (for example, an international stock fund that is unusually concentrated in domestic stocks, or a specific country fund that holds a lot of assets in a country other than the one identified in the name of the fund)?
    Do the fund's holdings overlap or mirror those of other funds that you own? If so, your investments may not be sufficiently diversified. Unless you intend to concentrate your investments in a few stocks or bonds or industry sectors, consider adjusting your asset allocation to achieve a more diversified portfolio.

Graphical Representation of Holdings

The shareholder report contains a table, chart, or graph of the fund's holdings by category (for example, type of security, industry sector, geographic region, credit quality, or maturity). Below is a hypothetical example of what a table showing a fund's holdings categorized by industry sector might look like:
Portfolio Allocation as of ___, 20XX
Percentage of Net Assets
Consumer Discretionary 	12.0%
Consumer Staples 	9.9
Energy 	10.0
Financials 	15.4
Health Care 	12.0
Industrials 	11.0
Information Technology 	19.2
Materials 	3.9
Telecommunication Services 	2.9
Utilities 	3.7
Condensed Financial Information/Financial Highlights

The condensed financial information or financial highlights section includes a summary table of financial information covering the past five years (or since the fund's inception, if less than five years). The summary table contains a breakdown of the change in the fund's net asset value (NAV) from one year to another over the five-year period.

    Look at the line item showing the fund's total return over the past five years. What does the total return tell you about the fund's performance trend during the last five years? Have the fund's returns been relatively steady from year to year or have they been volatile?
    Look at the line item showing the fund's portfolio turnover rate. The portfolio turnover rate reveals the frequency with which the fund turns over its portfolio by buying and selling securities. The fund pays transaction costs, such as commissions, when it buys and sells securities (or "turns over" its portfolio). A higher portfolio turnover rate may indicate higher transaction costs and may result in higher taxes when fund shares are held in a taxable account. These costs, which are not reflected in annual fund operating expenses or in the expense example, affect the fund's performance. The portfolio turnover rate will vary depending on the fund's investment strategy. An actively-managed fund may have a high portfolio turnover rate because of its rapid trading style, while a broad-based index fund will tend to have a low portfolio turnover rate due to its passive investment style. Keep in mind that a higher turnover rate may generate higher commissions and other trading costs that can cut into a fund's performance; it may also trigger capital gains taxes which the fund will pass on to you.
    The issue of return of capital distributions comes up occasionally with respect to open end funds, and the financial highlights section of the shareholder report provides information about the fund's distributions to shareholders. Distributions to shareholders may come from net investment income, net realized gains, or return of capital. If a fund does not earn enough income and realized gains to cover its distributions to shareholders in a given year, the fund may return capital to its shareholders. Investors should not mistake any return of capital for yield or total return on their investment in the fund. Shareholders who periodically receive a dividend payment or other distribution consisting of a return of capital may think that they are receiving net profits when, in fact, that is not the case. Under this circumstance, you should not assume that the source of a distribution from the fund is net profit.
    Skim the Notes to Financial Statements. These notes can contain useful information about the fund, such as whether there are any pending lawsuits or other contingencies that could affect the fund's performance or the operation of the fund.

Additional Items

The annual report contains additional items, some of which are summarized here. For example, you can find management compensation information in a number of places in the annual report. Funds typically disclose management compensation information in the Notes to Financial Statements, usually in two different locations within the annual report. Management compensation paid to the adviser usually is disclosed in a note that discusses the advisory fee rate and/or fees paid to affiliates. The amount paid to directors is generally reported in a separate note in the Notes to Financial Statements. The annual report also contains information about the fund's directors and officers, including their names, ages, length of time at the fund, their principal occupations over the past five years, and their responsibilities. In addition, either the annual or semiannual report will contain a statement regarding the basis for board approval of the investment advisory contract (discussing the reasons the board approved any investment advisory contract during the period covered by the report), as well as proxy-related information.

On rare occasions, annual and semiannual reports will contain information regarding changes in and disagreements with accountants (if applicable). Annual and semiannual reports also include statements regarding the availability of the quarterly portfolio schedule, proxy voting policies and procedures, and the fund's proxy voting record.


Fund Analyzer

The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) Fund Analyzer offers information and analysis on over 18,000 mutual funds, exchange traded funds (ETFs) and exchange traded notes (ETNs). This tool estimates the value of the funds and impact of fees and expenses on your investment and also allows you the ability to look up applicable fees and available discounts for funds.

Investor Bulletin: Mutual Fund Fees and Expenses
May 12, 2014

The SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Advocacy is issuing this Investor Bulletin to explain some of the most common mutual fund fees and expenses. As a general introduction to mutual fund fees and expenses, this Investor Bulletin does not identify all of the fees that you may pay to buy and own shares in a mutual fund. This Investor Bulletin will, however, familiarize you with some typical mutual fund fees and expenses and show you how those fees and expenses reduce the value of your fund’s investment return.

As with any business, it costs money to run a mutual fund. There are certain costs associated with an investor’s transactions (such as buying, selling, or exchanging mutual fund shares), which are commonly known as “shareholder fees,” and ongoing fund operating costs (such as investment advisory fees for managing the fund’s holdings, and marketing and distribution expenses, as well as custodial, transfer agency, legal, accounting, and other administrative expenses). Although these fees and expenses may not be listed individually as specific line items on your account statement, they can have a substantial impact on your investment over time.
The Impact of Mutual  Fund Fees and Expenses on Your Investment Portfolio

Fees and expenses vary from fund to fund and the amount you pay may depend on the fund's investment strategy. A fund with high costs must perform better than a low-cost fund to generate the same returns for you. Even small differences in fees from one fund to another can add up to substantial differences in your investment returns over time, as the graph below shows.

Portfolio Value From Investing $100,000 Over 20 Years
The Impact of Mutual Fund Fees and Expenses on Your Investment Portfolio

The graph above shows how mutual fund fees and expenses can affect your mutual fund investment portfolio. The graph illustrates the effect of fees and expenses in three hypothetical scenarios, as represented by the blue, red, and green lines.

    The blue line represents the investment portfolio of a hypothetical mutual fund that does not charge shareholder fees and that produced a 4% annual return over 20 years and had annual operating expenses of 0.25% (i.e., $25 for every $10,000 invested) during that period. If you invested $100,000 in this fund, then after 20 years your investment portfolio would be worth approximately $208,000.
    The red line represents the investment portfolio of a hypothetical mutual fund that does not charge shareholder fees and that produced a 4% return over 20 years and had annual operating expenses of 0.50% (i.e., $50 for every $10,000 invested) during that period. If you invested $100,000 in this fund, then after 20 years your investment portfolio would be worth approximately $198,000. The fees and expenses would have consumed about $10,000 more of your investment portfolio over that time, compared to the hypothetical mutual fund with annual operating expenses of 0.25%.
    The green line represents the investment portfolio of a mutual fund that does not charge shareholder fees and that produced a 4% return over 20 years and had annual operating expenses of 1.00% (i.e., $100 for every $10,000 invested) during that period. If you invested $100,000 in this fund, then after 20 years your investment portfolio would be worth approximately $179,000. The fees and expenses would have consumed nearly $30,000 more of your investment portfolio over that time, compared to the hypothetical mutual fund with annual operating expenses of 0.25%.

The more you pay in fees and expenses, the less money you will have in your investment portfolio. And these fees and expenses really add up over time. Given the compounding effect of fund fees and expenses and their impact on your investment returns, you may want to use a mutual fund cost calculator to compute how the costs of different mutual funds would add up over time.
Shareholder Fees and Annual Operating Expenses Generally

Some funds may cover the costs associated with your transactions and your account by imposing fees and charges directly on you at the time of the transactions (or periodically with respect to account fees). You can find these fees and charges listed in a standardized fee table located near the front of a fund’s prospectus, under the heading “Shareholder Fees” (described below).

In addition, funds typically pay their regular and recurring fund-wide operating expenses out of fund assets, instead of imposing these fees and charges directly on you. Because these expenses are paid out of fund assets, you are paying them indirectly. These expenses are identified in the standardized fee table in the fund’s prospectus under the heading “Annual Fund Operating Expenses” (described below).

It is important to understand that mutual funds do not impose these fees and expenses arbitrarily. Rather, the fund’s board of directors is responsible for overseeing the fund’s operations and management. The fund’s directors, and its independent directors, in particular, function as “watchdogs” who are supposed to look out for the interests of the fund’s shareholders. One of the most significant responsibilities of a fund’s board of directors is to negotiate and review the advisory contract between the fund and the investment adviser to the fund, including fees and expense ratios.

But even though these fees and expenses may be entirely appropriate based on the fund’s operations, these costs may be higher than what you might be willing to pay—so be sure to comparison shop and decide whether a similar fund with lower expenses would make better sense for you. Remember, the more you pay in fees and expenses, the less money you will have in your investment portfolio.

Before investing in a mutual fund, you should read the fund’s prospectus carefully. Some funds provide a “summary prospectus” that includes information on how you can obtain a full-length prospectus, while other funds may deliver a full-length prospectus only. If you are purchasing a mutual fund through a financial professional, ask that person to explain all the charges that may apply to your investment in the fund.
Mutual Fund Table

A mutual fund is required to disclose its shareholder fees and operating expenses in the form of a standardized fee table in its prospectus.

In the fee table, under the heading of “Shareholder Fees,” you will find some or all of the following items:
Shareholder Fees

In the fee table, under the heading of “Annual Fund Operating Expenses,” you will find some or all of the following items:
Annual Fund Operating Expenses

Below is a discussion of shareholder fees and annual fund operating expenses. For a description of other fees and expenses associated with investing in mutual funds, see our Investor Bulletin: How Fees and Expenses Affect Your Investment Portfolio
Shareholder Fees

In this section, we discuss those items that you will find under the heading of “Shareholder Fees” in the fee table.

Sales Loads

Funds that use brokers to sell their shares compensate the brokers. Funds may do this by imposing a fee on investors, known generally as a “sales load” (or “sales charge (load)”), which is paid to the selling brokers. In this respect, a sales load is like a commission you pay when you purchase any type of security from a broker.

While the SEC does not limit the amount of sales load a fund may charge, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) does not permit mutual fund sales loads to exceed 8.5%. The percentage is lower if a fund imposes other types of charges.

There are two general types of sales loads—a front-end sales load that you pay when you purchase fund shares and a back-end or deferred sales load that you may pay when you redeem your shares. When purchasing fund shares, you may or may not have a choice of whether to pay a front-end sales load, a back-end sales load, or some other deferred sales load, depending on the fund.

Sales Charge (Load) on Purchases

The category “Sales Charge (Load) on Purchases” in the fee table includes sales loads that you might pay when you purchase fund shares (also known as “front-end sales loads”). Typically, a mutual fund calculates the amount of front-end sales load based on a percentage of the sales price. The key point to keep in mind about a front-end sales load is that it reduces—right off the top—the amount of money that you have available to purchase fund shares (as described in the example below).
Front-End Sales Load

For example, if you write a $10,000 check to a fund to purchase fund shares, and the fund has a 5% front-end sales load, the total amount of the sales load will be $500. The $500 sales load is deducted from your $10,000 check (and typically paid to a selling broker), and assuming there are no other front-end fees, the remaining $9,500 is used to purchase your fund shares.

Sometimes, funds offer discounts for larger investment amounts—usually called “breakpoint discounts”—in which the sales load is reduced if more than a certain amount of money is invested.

Deferred Sales Charge (Load)

The category “Deferred Sales Charge (Load)” in the fee table refers to a sales load that you might pay when you redeem fund shares (that is, sell your shares back to the fund). You may also see this referred to as a “deferred” or “back-end” sales load. When you purchase shares that have a back-end sales load instead of a front-end sales load, no sales load is deducted at the time of your purchase, so all of your money is used immediately to purchase fund shares (assuming that no other fees or charges apply at the time of purchase).
Back-End Sales Load

For example, if you invest $10,000 in a fund with a 5% back-end sales load, and if there are no other “purchase fees,” the entire $10,000 will be used to purchase fund shares, and the 5% sales load is not deducted until you redeem your shares, at which point the fee is deducted from the redemption proceeds.

Typically, a fund calculates the amount of a back-end sales load based on the lesser of the value of the shareholder’s initial investment or the value of the shareholder’s investment at redemption. For example, if you initially invest $10,000, and at redemption the investment has appreciated to $12,000, a back-end sales load calculated in this manner would be based on the value of your initial investment— $10,000—not on the value of the investment at redemption. Similarly, if you initially invest $10,000, and at redemption the investment has declined in value to $8,000, a back-end sales load calculated in this manner would be based on the value of the investment at redemption—$8,000—not on the value of your initial investment in this example. You should read a fund’s prospectus carefully to determine whether the fund calculates its back-end sales load in this manner.

The most common type of back-end sales load is the “contingent deferred sales load,” also referred to as a “CDSC,” or “CDSL.” The amount of this type of load will depend on how long you hold your shares and may gradually decline to zero if you hold your shares long enough. For example, a contingent deferred sales load might be 5% if you hold your shares for less than one year, 4% if you hold your shares for one to two years, and so on until the load goes away completely. The rate at which this fee will decline will be disclosed in the fund’s prospectus.

A fund or class with a contingent deferred sales load typically will also have an annual 12b-1 fee (described below).
No-Load Funds

Some funds identify themselves as “no-load” funds. As the name implies, a no-load fund does not charge any type of sales load. But no-load does not mean no fees. As described above, not every type of shareholder fee is a “sales load,” and a no-load fund may charge fees that are not sales loads. For example, a no-load fund is permitted to charge purchase fees, redemption fees, exchange fees, and account fees, none of which is considered to be a “sales load.” It is important to know exactly what fees and charges you will be paying, even for no-load funds.

Redemption Fee

A redemption fee is another type of fee that some funds may charge you when you redeem your shares. Typically, a fund expresses the redemption fee as a percentage of the redemption price. Although a fund may deduct a redemption fee from redemption proceeds just like a deferred sales load, a redemption fee is not considered to be a sales load. Unlike a sales load, which is used to pay brokers, a fund typically imposes a redemption fee to defray fund costs associated with a shareholder’s redemption and that fee is paid directly to the fund, not to a broker. The SEC limits redemption fees to 2.00%.

Exchange Fee

An exchange fee is a fee that some funds may impose on you if you exchange (transfer) your shares in one fund for shares of another fund within the same fund group.

Account Fee

An account fee is a separate fee that some funds may impose on you in connection with the maintenance of your accounts. For example, some funds impose an account maintenance fee on accounts valued at less than a certain dollar amount (for example, on accounts valued at less than $10,000).

Purchase Fee

A purchase fee is a type of fee that some funds may charge when you purchase their shares. A purchase fee differs from, and is not considered to be, a front-end sales load because a purchase fee is paid to the fund (not to a broker) and is typically imposed to defray some of the fund’s costs associated with the purchase.
Annual Fund Operating Expenses

In this section, we discuss those items that you will find under the heading of “Annual Fund Operating Expenses” in the fee table.

Management Fees

Management fees are fees that are paid out of fund assets to the fund’s investment adviser (or its affiliates) for managing the fund’s investment portfolio, and administrative fees payable to the investment adviser that are not included in the “Other Expenses” category (discussed below).

Distribution [and/or Service] (12b-1) Fees and 12b-1 Plans

This category identifies so-called “12b-1 fees,” which are fees paid by the fund out of fund assets to cover distribution expenses and sometimes shareholder service expenses. These “12b-1 fees” get their name from the SEC rule that authorizes a fund to pay them. The rule permits a fund to pay distribution fees out of fund assets only if the fund has adopted a plan (12b-1 plan) authorizing their payment.

“Distribution fees” include fees paid for marketing and selling fund shares, such as compensating brokers and others who sell fund shares, and paying for advertising, the printing and mailing of prospectuses to new investors, and the printing and mailing of sales literature. The SEC does not limit the amount of 12b-1 fees that funds may pay. Under FINRA rules, however, 12b-1 fees that are used to pay marketing and distribution expenses (as opposed to shareholder service expenses) cannot exceed 0.75% of a fund’s average net assets per year.

Some 12b-1 plans also authorize and include “shareholder service fees,” which are fees paid to persons to respond to investor inquiries and provide investors with information about their investments. A fund may pay shareholder service fees without adopting a 12b-1 plan. If shareholder service fees are part of a fund’s 12b-1 plan, these fees will be included in the “Shareholder Fees” category of the fee table. If shareholder service fees are paid outside a 12b-1 plan, then they will be included in the “Other Expenses” category, discussed below. FINRA imposes an annual 0.25% cap on shareholder service fees (regardless of whether these fees are authorized as part of a 12b-1 plan).

Other Expenses

Included in this category are expenses not included in the categories “Management Fees” or “Distribution [and/or Service] (12b-1) Fees.” Examples include: certain shareholder service expenses; custodial expenses; legal expenses; accounting expenses; transfer agent expenses; and other administrative expenses.

Total Annual Fund Operating Expenses (or “Fund’s Expense Ratio”)

This line of the fee table represents the total of a fund’s annual fund operating expenses, expressed as a percentage of the fund’s average net assets.
No-Expense or Zero-Expense Funds

Some funds call themselves “no-expense” or “zero-expense” funds or emphasize their low expense ratios without mentioning other costs investors pay—either directly or indirectly— when investing in the fund.

For example, the fee table in a fund’s prospectus may show no fees for sales or distribution because others, including affiliates of the fund’s investment adviser, may instead be collecting fees for those services. An investor in such a fund may pay these as separate investment fees, such as commissions paid to a broker for the purchase of fund shares or fees paid to an adviser based on a percentage of assets in a wrap fee program.

Also, there may be other costs investors pay indirectly that are not included in the fund’s expense ratio, such as costs associated with the fund’s securities lending activities or transaction costs that the fund pays when it buys and sells its underlying securities.

These additional costs and expenses can reduce the value of your investment.


Exchange-Traded Funds (ETFs)

This summary discusses only ETFs that are registered as open-end investment companies or unit investment trusts under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “1940 Act”).  It does not address other types of exchange-traded products that are not registered under the 1940 Act, such as exchange-traded commodity funds or exchange-traded notes.

The following information is general in nature and is not intended to address the specifics of your financial situation.  When considering an investment, make sure you understand the particular investment product fully before making an investment decision.

What is an ETF?
Things to Consider before Investing in ETFs
Types of ETFs
Final Words
Additional Information
﻿What is an ETF?

ETFs are a type of exchange-traded investment product that must register with the SEC under the 1940 Act as either an open-end investment company (generally known as “funds”) or a unit investment trust.

Like mutual funds, ETFs offer investors a way to pool their money in a fund that makes investments in stocks, bonds, or other assets and, in return, to receive an interest in that investment pool.  Unlike mutual funds, however, ETF shares are traded on a national stock exchange and at market prices that may or may not be the same as the net asset value (“NAV”) of the shares, that is, the value of the ETF’s assets minus its liabilities divided by the number of shares outstanding.
﻿Things to Consider before Investing in ETFs

ETFs are not mutual funds.  Generally, ETFs combine features of a mutual fund, which can be purchased or redeemed at the end of each trading day at its NAV per share, with the intraday trading feature of a closed-end fund, whose shares trade throughout the trading day at market prices.

Unlike with mutual fund shares, retail investors can only purchase and sell ETF shares in market transactions.  That is, unlike mutual funds, ETFs do not sell individual shares directly to, or redeem their individual shares directly from, retail investors.  Instead, ETF sponsors enter into contractual relationships with one or more financial institutions known as “Authorized Participants.”  Authorized Participants typically are large broker-dealers.  Only Authorized Participants are permitted to purchase and redeem shares directly from the ETF, and they can do so only in large aggregations or blocks (e.g., 50,000 ETF shares) commonly called “Creation Units.”

Other investors purchase and sell ETF shares in market transactions at market prices.  An ETF’s market price typically will be more or less than the fund’s NAV per share.  This is because the ETF’s market price fluctuates during the trading day as a result of a variety of factors, including the underlying prices of the ETF’s assets and the demand for the ETF, while the ETF’s NAV is the value of the ETF’s assets minus its liabilities, as calculated by the ETF at the end of each business day.
﻿Types of ETFs

Index-Based ETFs

Most ETFs trading in the marketplace are index-based ETFs.  These ETFs seek to track a securities index like the S&P 500 stock index and generally invest primarily in the component securities of the index.  For example, the SPDR, or “spider” ETF, which seeks to track the S&P 500 stock index, invests in most or all of the equity securities contained in the S&P 500 stock index.  Some, but not all, ETFs may post their holdings on their websites on a daily basis.

Actively Managed ETFs

Actively managed ETFs are not based on an index.  Instead, they seek to achieve a stated investment objective by investing in a portfolio of stocks, bonds, and other assets.  Unlike with an index-based ETF, an adviser of an actively managed ETF may actively buy or sell components in the portfolio on a daily basis without regard to conformity with an index.
﻿Final words

Before investing in an ETF, you should read both its summary prospectus and its full prospectus, which provide detailed information on the ETF’s investment objective, principal investment strategies, risks, costs, and historical performance (if any).  The SEC’s EDGAR system, as well as Internet search engines, can help you locate a specific ETF prospectus.  You can also find prospectuses on the websites of the financial firms that sponsor a particular ETF, as well as through your broker.

Do not invest in something that you do not understand.  If you cannot explain the investment opportunity in a few words and in an understandable way, you may need to reconsider the potential investment.

Finally, you may wish to consider seeking the advice of an investment professional.  If you do, be sure to work with someone who understands your investment objectives and tolerance for risk.  Your investment professional should understand complex products and be able to explain to your satisfaction whether or how they fit with your objectives.


Investing on Your Own

The first step to investing, especially investing on your own, is to make sure you have a financial plan. How much are you going to invest? For how long? What are your financial goals? Do you understand your tolerance for risk? All investments carry some risk.

The next step is research, research, research. When investing on your own, you are responsible for your decisions. How will you select one stock, bond, or mutual fund over others? Always make sure that all securities are registered with the SEC, using the SEC’s EDGAR database. Don’t purchase solely on stock tips from others.

There are several ways you can invest on your own, including Online Investing, Direct Investing, and Dividend Reinvestment Plans.

What do you know about saving and investing? Do you want to see how your financial knowledge measures up against others? Try the Investor.gov quizzes.


Save and Invest

Here are a few important steps to help you define and meet your financial goals.

    Printer-friendly version

Roadmap to Saving and Investing
Define Your Goals
Figure Out Your Finances
Small Savings Add Up to Big Money
Pay Off Credit Cards or Other High Interest Debt
Save for a Rainy Day
Understand What It Means to Invest
Diversify Your Investments
Gauge Your Risk Tolerance
Learn About Investment Options



Define Your Goals

Knowing how to secure your financial well-being is one of the most important things you can do for yourself. You don’t have to be a genius to do it. You just need to know a few basics, form a plan, and be ready to stick to it.

To end up where you want to be, you need a financial plan. Ask yourself what you want. List your most important goals first. Decide how many years you have to meet each specific goal, because when you save or invest, you’ll need to find an option that fits your time frame. Here are some tools to help you decide how much you’ll need to save for various needs.


Diversify Your Investments

Diversification can be neatly summed up as, “Don’t put all your eggs in one basket.” The idea is that if one investment loses money, the other investments will make up for those losses. Diversification can’t guarantee that your investments won’t suffer if the market drops. But it can improve the chances that you won’t lose money, or that if you do, it won’t be as much as if you weren’t diversified.


Figure Out Your Finances

Take an honest look at your entire financial situation — what you own and what you owe. This is a “net worth statement.” On one side, list what you own. These are your “assets. ” On the other side, list what you owe. These are your “liabilities” or debts. Subtract your liabilities from your assets. If your assets are larger than your liabilities, you have a “positive” net worth. If your liabilities are larger than your assets, you have a “negative” net worth.

You’ll want to update your “net worth statement” every year to keep track of how you are doing. Don’t be discouraged if you have a negative net worth -- following a financial plan will help you turn it into positive net worth.

The next step is to keep track of your income and expenses. Write down what you and others in your family earn and spend each month, and include a category for savings and investing. If you are spending all your income, and never have money to save or invest, start by cutting back on expenses. When you watch where you spend your money, you will be surprised how small everyday expenses can add up. Many people get into the habit of saving and investing by paying themselves first. An easy way to do this is to have your bank automatically deposit money from your paycheck into a savings or investment account.



Gauge Your Risk Tolerance

What are the best saving and investment products for you? The answer depends on when you will need the money, your goals, and whether you will be able to sleep at night if you purchase a risky investment (one where you could lose your principal).

For instance, if you are saving for retirement, and you have 35 years before you retire, you may want to consider riskier investment products, knowing that if you stick to only the “savings” products or to less risky investment products, your money will grow too slowly. Or, given inflation and taxes, you may lose the purchasing power of your money. A frequent mistake people make is putting money they will not need for a very long time in investments that pay a low amount of interest.

On the other hand, if you are saving for a short-term goal, five years or less, you don’t want to choose risky investments, because when it’s time to sell, you may have to take a loss.



Learn About Investment Options

While the SEC cannot recommend any particular investment product, a vast array of investment products exists, including stocks, mutual funds, corporate and municipal bonds, annuities, exchange-traded funds (ETFs), money market funds, and U.S. Treasury securities.
Stocks, bonds, mutual funds and ETFs are the most common asset categories. These are among the asset categories you would likely choose from when investing in a retirement savings program or a college savings plan. Other asset categories include real estate, precious metals and other commodities, and private equity. Some investors may include these asset categories within a portfolio. Investments in these asset categories typically have category-specific risks.
Before you make any investment, understand the risks of the investment and make sure the risks are appropriate for you. You’ll also want to understand the fees associated with the buying, selling, and holding the investment. 



Pay Off Credit Cards or Other High Interest Debt

No investment strategy pays off as well as, or with less risk than, eliminating high interest debt. Most credit cards charge high interest rates -- as much as 18% or more - if you don’t pay off your balance in full each month. If you owe money on your credit cards, the wisest thing you can do is pay off the balance in full as quickly as possible. Virtually no investment will give you returns to match an 18% interest rate on your credit card. That’s why you’re better off eliminating all credit card debt before investing. Once you’ve paid off your credit cards, you can budget your money and begin to save and invest.

Here are some tips for avoiding credit card debt:
Put Away the Plastic

    Don’t use a credit card unless you know you’ll have the money to pay the bill when it arrives.

Know What You Owe

    It’s easy to forget how much you’ve charged on your credit card. Every time you use a credit card, track how much you have spent and figure out how much you’ll have to pay that month. If you know you won’t be able to pay your balance in full, try to figure out how much you can pay each month and how long it’ll take to pay the balance in full.

Pay Off the Card with the Highest Rate

    If you’ve got unpaid balances on several credit cards, you should first pay down the card that charges the highest rate. Pay as much as you can toward that debt each month until your balance is once again zero, while still paying the minimum on your other cards. The same advice goes for any other high-interest debt (about 8% or above), which does not offer any tax advantages.



Save for a Rainy Day

Savings are usually put into safe places that allow you access to your money at any time. Examples include savings accounts, checking accounts, and certificates of deposit. Your money may be insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) or National Credit Union Administration (NCUA). But there’s a tradeoff between security and availability; your money earns a low interest rate.

Most smart investors put enough money in savings to cover an emergency, like sudden unemployment. Some make sure they have up to six months of their income in savings so that they know it will absolutely be there for them when they need it.

But how “safe” is a savings account if the interest it earns doesn’t keep up with inflation? Let’s say you save a dollar when it can buy a loaf of bread. But years later when you withdraw that dollar plus the interest you earned, it might only be able to buy half a loaf. That is why many people put some of their money in savings, but look to investing so they can earn more over longer periods of time.


Small Savings Add Up to Big Money

How much does a daily candy bar cost? Would you believe $465.84? Or more?

If you buy a candy bar every day for $1, it adds up to $365 a year. If you saved that $365 and put it into an investment that earns 5% a year, it would grow to $465.84 by the end of five years, and by the end of 30 years, to $1,577.50. That’s the power of “compounding.”

With compound interest, you earn interest on the money you save and on the interest that money earns. Over time, even a small amount saved can add up to big money.

If you buy on impulse, make a rule that you’ll always wait 24 hours before buying anything. You may lose your desire to buy it after a day. Also, try emptying your pockets at the end of each day and putting spare change aside. You’ll be surprised how quickly those nickels and dimes add up.



Understand What It Means to Invest

When investing, you have a greater chance of losing your money than when you save. Unlike FDIC-insured deposits, the money you invest in securities, mutual funds, and other similar investments are not federally insured. You could lose your “principal,” which is the amount you’ve invested. That’s true even if you purchase your investments through a bank. But when you invest, you also have the opportunity to earn more money. On the other hand, investing involves taking on some degree of risk.


Invest For Your Goals

From retirement planning, to saving for education, to simply building a nest egg, individual investors may have a wide range of goals they hope to achieve. A concrete investment plan can help keep you on track – and increase your chances of achieving your goals.

 

Questions you should ask yourself when developing your investment plan include:

    What goals do I want to achieve with my investments?
    How much do I need to invest to achieve my goals?
    How much can I afford to invest?
    What is my risk tolerance?
    What am I doing to protect myself from investment fraud?
    Have I checked my investment professional’s background on Investor.gov?

Below are some resources that can help you design your goals and create a plan that works for you:

    Investor Preparedness Checklist (PDF)
    Getting Started
    Retirement
    Military Retirement
    Saving for Education



Online Investing

Online trading is quick and easy, but online investing takes time.

With the click of a mouse, you can buy and sell stocks from one of the many online brokers offering low-cost trades. Although online trading saves investors time and money, it does not take the homework out of making investment decisions. You may be able to make a fast trade, but making wise investment decisions takes time. Before you trade, know why you are buying or selling, and the risk of your investment.

Set your price limits
If you place an order, check to make sure it was executed
If you cancel an order, make sure the cancellation worked before placing another trade
If you purchase a security in a cash account, you must pay for it before you can sell it.
Set your price limits

To avoid buying or selling a stock at a price higher or lower than you wanted, you should place a limit order rather than a market order. A limit order is an order to buy or sell a security at a specific price. A buy limit order can only be executed at the limit price or lower, and a sell limit order can only be executed at the limit price or higher. Your limit order will not be executed if the market price quickly surpasses your limit before your order can be filled. But, by using a limit order, you protect yourself from buying the stock at too high a price or selling it at too low a price.
If you place an order, check to make sure it was executed

Some investors mistakenly assume that their orders have not been executed and place the order again. They end up buying or selling twice, which can be a costly mistake. Talk with your financial services firm about how you should handle a situation where you are unsure if your original order was executed.
If you cancel an order, make sure the cancellation worked before placing another trade

When you cancel an online trade, make sure that your original transaction was not executed. Although you may receive an electronic receipt for the cancellation, don't assume the trade was cancelled. Orders can only be cancelled if they have not been executed. Ask your financial services firm about how you can confirm that a cancellation order worked.
If you purchase a security in a cash account, you must pay for it before you can sell it

In a cash account, you must pay for the purchase of a stock before you sell it. If you buy and sell a stock before paying for it, you are freeriding. Freeriding violates the credit extension provisions of the Federal Reserve Board’s Regulation T. If you freeride, your broker must "freeze" your account for 90 days. You can still trade but you must pay in full for any purchases on the date you buy them as long as the freeze is in effect.

You can avoid the freeze if you pay for the stock in full by the settlement date, using funds that do not come from the sale of the stock. You can always ask your broker for an extension or waiver, but you may not get it.



Direct Investing

You may be able to invest directly using direct stock plans (DSP) or dividend reinvestment plans (DRIP). Here’s how they work:

Direct stock plans (DSP). Some companies allow you to buy or sell their stock directly through them without using a broker. This saves on commissions, but you may have to pay other fees to the plan, such as fees incurred if you transfer shares to a broker to sell them. Some companies limit direct stock plans to employees of the company or existing shareholders. Some require minimum amounts for purchases or account levels. You’ll want to read and understand the plan’s rules before investing.

Direct stock plans usually will not allow you to buy or sell shares at a specific market price or at a specific time. Instead, the company will buy or sell shares for the plan at set times — such as daily, weekly, or monthly — and at an average market price. Depending on the plan, you may be able to automate your purchases and have the cost deducted automatically from your savings account.

Dividend reinvestment plans (DRIP). These plans allow you to buy more shares of a stock you already own by reinvesting dividend payments into the company. You must sign an agreement with the company to have this done. Check with the company or your brokerage firm to see if you will be charged for this service.


Working with an Investment Professional

Are you the type of person who will read as much as possible about potential investments and ask questions about them? If so, maybe you don’t need investment advice.

But if you’re busy with your job, your children, or other responsibilities, or feel you don’t know enough about investing on your own, then you may need some help.

Brokers and investment advisers offer a variety of services at a variety of prices. It pays to comparison shop.

You can hire a broker, an investment adviser, or a financial planner to help you make investment decisions. You can also get investment advice from most financial institutions that sell investments, including brokerages, banks, mutual fund companies, and insurance companies.

There is no such thing as a free lunch. Investment advisers and brokers do not perform their services as an act of charity. If they are working for you, they are getting paid for their efforts. Some of their fees are easier to see immediately than are others. But, in all cases, you should always feel free to ask questions about how and how much your adviser is being paid. And if the fee is quoted to you as a percentage, make sure that you understand what that translates to in dollars.
Check out your Investment Professional

Choosing whether to work with a professional – and deciding which type is best for you – is a very important decision.  The most important question that you should consider before hiring an investment professional is whether the person is registered with us or with a state securities regulator.  It is really risky to invest with someone who isn’t licensed and we urge you not to do it.  Investor.gov has a free and simple search tool that allows you to find out if your investment professional is licensed and registered.
Read the Firm’s Relationship Summary

Beginning in summer 2020, registered broker-dealers and registered investment advisers will be required to provide a customer or client relationship summary (also called Form CRS) to retail investors. A firm’s relationship summary tells you about:

    the types of services a firm offers;
    the fees and costs you will have to pay for those services;
    conflicts of interest a broker or adviser may have;
    the required standard of conduct associated with the services a firm offers;  
    whether a firm and its financial professionals have reportable legal or disciplinary history; and
    key questions (conversation starters) to ask your financial professional.

Each firm’s relationship summary uses similar headings and order of topics to make it easy for you to compare firms. You can find more about the relationship summary at Investor.gov/CRS.
Tricky Titles

If a broker or adviser has initials after their name, don’t assume that makes that individual more qualified than another. These titles are not all the same and do not necessarily mean better service for you. In fact, the initials may mean that the adviser or broker can only sell certain products. Check the titles to see if there are limits on what that adviser or broker can sell. For instance, if someone can only sell fixed annuities, he or she may be inclined to recommend them for every customer.

Check out this list from FINRA

. It shows how some credentials can be obtained easily, and how others are hard-earned.
Must Read Tip

If you have a brokerage or advisory account, read every statement promptly -- it may not be fun to look at it when the market is down, but it is your most important protection against unauthorized transactions. If you do not object promptly after receiving notification of a transaction, you might not be able to contest it later. You should object in writing to better protect your rights. That’s why it’s important to read your statement and object right away if something is wrong.


Brokers

A broker is a

    firm or individual
    that engages in the business of buying and selling securities – stocks, bonds, mutual funds, exchange-traded funds (ETFs), and certain other investment products – on behalf of its customer (as broker), for its own account (dealer), or both.

A typical broker accepts and carries out orders to buy and sell investments.  It also may make recommendations to buy, sell or hold a specific investment, and/or make recommendations of investment strategies (including account recommendations), and may agree to periodically monitor investments in some accounts.  Brokers typically provide investment services on a transactional basis, in which you pay a broker a fee called a commission or markup every time you buy or sell an investment.  You may pay other fees and costs related to servicing your account and the investments that you buy, sell or hold. 
Selecting a broker

Brokers are required to act in your best interest when making a recommendation and not put their interest ahead of yours.  At the same time, the way brokers make money creates some conflicts with your interests.  You should understand and ask a broker about these conflicts because they can affect the services and recommendations they provide.  Conducting a thorough inquiry into a broker’s services, fee arrangements, and investment offerings will help you select a broker capable of serving your investment objectives. 

Before selecting a broker, you should consider:

    what services and products you need,
    what services and products the broker can provide,
    any limitations on what services and products the broker can provide,
    how much you will pay for services and transactions,
    how the broker gets paid,
    what conflicts of interest the broker may have when giving you investment recommendations, and
    whether the broker has legal or disciplinary history and, if so, for what type of conduct.

The services your broker provides and what fees you pay may be negotiable, but will ultimately depend on your account agreement with your broker.  Make sure you read and understand this agreement, as well as the broker’s relationship summary and, for brokers that offer recommendations, Regulation Best Interest disclosures.

Brokers generally must register with the Securities and Exchange Commission and become members of Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA).   Investor.gov has a free and simple search tool that allows you to find out if your investment professional is licensed and registered, and if the firm or person (registered representative) has had run-ins with regulators or received complaints from investors.  Always check out both the person as well as the firm. Your state securities regulator

 may provide more information, so you may want to check with them also.

The Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC)
 may protect you if a brokerage firm goes bankrupt or if your securities are stolen. You should check whether your brokerage firm has this important coverage. SIPC does not protect you against declines in your investment holdings.
 
 
Using BrokerCheck

Details on a broker’s background and qualifications are available for free on FINRA’s BrokerCheck website

.

Using BrokerCheck, you can search for a brokerage firm or individual broker by name or registration number, and link to state regulators’ websites.
For individual brokers, BrokerCheck will tell you:

    Where the broker works currently
    The broker’s employment history for the past 10 years, in and outside the brokerage industry
    What licenses the broker holds and where the broker is registered
    The qualification exams the broker has passed

BrokerCheck also will tell you whether the broker has been:

    Charged or convicted of any criminal felonies
    Charged or convicted of any investment-related misdemeanors
    Subject to any industry disciplinary actions or investigations by regulators
    Involved in any investment-related civil actions or proceedings
    Named in any consumer-initiated complaints, arbitration proceedings, or civil law suits
    Cited for failing to pay judgments or liens
    In bankruptcy proceedings
    Terminated by an employer following allegations of misconduct or failing to supervise subordinates

FINRA Disciplinary Actions Online

In addition to BrokerCheck, FINRA has a separate database for viewing FINRA’s disciplinary actions against brokers.

You can search for cases and actions back to 2006 that are eligible for publication pursuant to FINRA Rule 8313 (Release of Disciplinary Complaints, Decisions and Other Information)
. You can search the FINRA Disciplinary Actions Online by individual name, firm name, case number, date range, document type, document text, or CRD number. Results will include opinions issued by the SEC and federal appellate courts that relate to FINRA disciplinary actions that have been appealed.


Investment Advisers

An investment adviser is a

    firm or person
    that, for compensation, engages
        in the business of providing investment advice to others about the value of or about investing in securities – stocks, bonds, mutual funds, exchange traded funds (ETFs), and certain other investment products

and/or

    in issuing reports or analyses regarding securities, as part of a regular business.

Advisers typically provide ongoing advice about buying, selling and/or holding investments and will monitor the performance of your investments and their alignment with your overall investment objectives.  The fee that you pay for this advice is typically based on the value of all of the assets held in your account with the adviser.  You may pay other fees and costs related to servicing your account and the investments that you buy, sell or hold.  Advisers also may give advice about market trends or asset allocation or offer financial planning services. 
Selecting an adviser

Investment advisers are required to act in your best interest and not put their interest ahead of yours.  At the same time, the way advisers make money creates some conflicts with your interests.  You should understand and ask an adviser about these conflicts because they can affect the investment advice they provide.  Conducting a thorough inquiry into an adviser’s services, fee arrangements, and investment offerings will help you select an adviser capable of serving your investment objectives.

Before selecting an adviser, you should consider:

    what services and products you need,
    what services and products the adviser can provide,
    any limitations on what services and products the adviser can provide,
    how much you will pay for services and transactions,
    how the adviser gets paid, 
    what conflicts of interest the adviser may have when giving you investment advice, and
    whether the adviser has legal or disciplinary history and, if so, for what type of conduct.

The services and advice your adviser provides and what fees you pay will ultimately depend on the contract you negotiate with your adviser.  Make sure you read and understand this agreement, as well as the adviser’s relationship summary and Form ADV Part 2 Brochure.

Advisers generally must register with the Securities and Exchange Commission or state securities authorities.   Investor.gov  has a free and simple search tool that allows you to find out if your investment professional is licensed and registered, and if the firm or person has had run-ins with regulators or received complaints from investors.  Always check out both the person as well as the firm. 

If you wish to file a complaint regarding the conduct of your investment adviser, please check out our Investor Bulletin: Investor Complaints.
Questions to Ask

Here are some of the questions to ask when evaluating an investment adviser:

    Are you registered with the SEC, a state, or the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)?
    May I have a copy of your firm’s latest Form ADV, including the brochure and the brochure supplement?
    Have you or your firm ever been disciplined by any regulator?  If yes, for what reasons and how was the matter resolved?
    Have you ever been sued by a client who was not happy with your work or the services you provided or the products you recommended?
    How are you paid for your services? What is your usual hourly rate, flat fee, or commission?
    What experience do you have, especially with people in my circumstances?
    Where did you go to school? What is your recent employment history?
    What products and services do you offer? Are you only supposed to recommend a limited number of products or services to me? If so, why? 



Investment Adviser Registration

Investment advisers may be primarily regulated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or by one or more state securities authorities.  Each state has one securities regulatory authority, but some investment advisers may be regulated by more than one state.  Unlicensed, unregistered persons commit much of the investment fraud in the United States, so you should always check to see whether an investment adviser is registered with the SEC or your home state before making a decision to invest with them. To find out if your investment professional is licensed and registered, you can use the free Check Out Your Investment Professional search tool available on Investor.gov.

Sometimes it is helpful to know which regulatory authority is the primary regulator of an investment adviser—for example, if you have a question about which rules and regulations apply to that adviser. The authority with which an adviser is registered will serve as its primary regulator.  Here are some general rules that apply to determining the primary regulator of an investment adviser.    
What is the general rule for state regulation versus regulation by the SEC?

Investment advisers can be divided into three categories based on their regulatory assets under management (“RAUM”)--a specialized calculation of the assets over which they provide investment advice. 

    A small adviser has less than $25 million of RAUM.
    A mid-sized adviser has between $25 million and $100 million of RAUM.
    A large adviser has greater than $100 million of RAUM.

In general, small and mid-sized advisers are registered with and primarily regulated by one or more state securities authorities, though certain federal securities provisions still apply to state-registered advisers (such as those prohibiting fraud).  Large advisers are registered with the SEC and are primarily subject to federal regulation instead of state regulation.  However, SEC-registered investment advisers must comply with state antifraud prohibitions, and states may license and register representatives of SEC-registered investment advisers.
Are there exceptions to the general rule based on RAUM noted above?

Yes.  In some cases, a small or mid-sized adviser may be permitted or required to register with the SEC instead of with one or more state securities authorities.  For example:

    Mid-sized advisers that are either not required to be registered as an adviser with, or not subject to examination by, the state securities authority where they maintain their principal office and place of business must register with the SEC.
    Advisers to investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 must register with the SEC. 
    Advisers to business development companies, when the adviser has at least $25 million of RAUM, must register with the SEC.
    Certain internet advisers who provide advice through an interactive website may register with the SEC.
    Multi-state advisers that would otherwise be obligated to register with 15 or more states may register with the SEC.
    Pension consultants providing advisory services to employee benefit plans having at least $200 million of assets may register with the SEC (even though the consultant does not itself have those assets under management).
    Related advisers that control, are controlled by, or are under common control of an SEC-registered adviser may register with the SEC, but only if they have the same principal office and place of business.
    Newly formed advisers that expect to be eligible for SEC registration within 120 days may register with the SEC.
    Non-U.S. advisers giving advice to U.S. persons must register with the SEC, unless an exemption from SEC registration is available (in which case it may be subject to state registration requirements).

Some advisers (like “multi-state advisers”) may have the option of choosing between SEC and state registration. 
How do I find out who regulates my investment adviser?

Consider contacting your investment adviser to find out who has primary responsibility for regulating it. You can also get details about whether your investment adviser is registered with the SEC or a state securities authority by using the free Check Out Your Investment Professional search tool on Investor.gov.  We can also assist you with determining the registration status of your investment adviser.  Please call our toll-free investor assistance line at 1-800-SEC-0330 or use our online question web form. 



Check Out Your Investment Professional

Unlicensed, unregistered persons commit much of the investment fraud in the United States.

Always check the background of any financial professional to make sure the person is licensed. Type a financial professional’s name in the box and you will be re-directed to the Investor Adviser Public Disclosure (IAPD) website. There you can find out if your investment professional and his/her firm is licensed with the SEC, with a state(s), and/or with FINRA (the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority). You can also learn about any disciplinary history the investment professional or his/her firm may have. If necessary, you may be automatically directed to BrokerCheck
, a website run by FINRA specifically for broker-dealers.


Using IAPD

The IAPD database provides information about investment adviser firms registered with the SEC and most state-registered investment adviser firms. The SEC typically regulates larger investment advisers while smaller investment advisers generally are regulated by the states.

Through IAPD, you can:

    Search for an investment adviser firm
    View the adviser’s current Form ADV filing, including the firm’s current relationship summary
    Check the adviser’s registration status
    Search for an investment adviser representative
    View information on the representative’s professional background and conduct
    Check the representative’s registration status
    Link to a state regulator’s website
    Automatically transfer to the FINRA BrokerCheck website for information about brokers and their registered representatives.



SEC Action Lookup – Individuals
SEC ActionLookup
About this Feature

The SEC Action Lookup feature allows you to look up information about individuals who have been named as defendants in SEC federal court actions or respondents in SEC administrative proceedings.

Your search results will only include individuals charged in SEC actions filed between certain dates, as detailed on the SEC Action Lookup webpage.

Search results will include individuals against whom a court has entered at judgement or the Commission has issued an order.  This includes individuals who settled, defaulted, or contested their actions, provided a judgement or order was issued against them. Your results will not include individuals whose cases are currently pending at the trial court or those against whom no judgement or order has been issued.

When making decisions about investments and investment professionals, you should not solely use this tool.  For other resources and tools, see Information for the Individual Investor or visit Investor.gov.


Choosing a Financial Professional

    When it comes to finding a financial professional that is right for you, it’s important that you understand the key features of the relationship so you can make the best decision. In these short videos, former Chairman Jay Clayton explains the key differences between broker-dealers and investment advisers. 

Introduction

How They Get Paid

What Else to Think About

Know the Difference

Which is Right for Me



Researching Investments

Researching investments is part of an investor’s due diligence. Companies must provide certain information when they initially offer stocks or bonds for sale to the public. Companies and bond issuers must also must provide certain information to the public periodically. These disclosures provide investors with information to judge whether a particular security is a good investment. If a company is not registered with the SEC, it could be a red flag. Scams often involve unregistered companies.

Ask and Check - Research Investment Products and Professionals

Using EDGAR to Research Investments

Using EMMA - Researching Municipal Securities and 529 Plans

How to Read a 10-K

How to Read an 8-K

Insider Transactions and Forms 3, 4, and 5

How to Read a Mutual Fund Prospectus (Part 1 of 3:  Investment Objective, Strategies, and Risks); (Part 2 of 3: Fee Table and Performance); (Part 3 of 3:  Management, Shareholder Information, and Statement of Additional Information)

How to Read a Mutual Fund Shareholder Report

FINRA Fund Analyzer
- The Fund Analyzer offers information and analysis on over 18,000 mutual funds, Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) and Exchange Traded Notes (ETNs).  This tool establishes the value of the funds and impact of fees and expenses on your investment and also allows you the ability to look up applicable fees and available discounts for funds.


Using EDGAR to Research Investments

The EDGAR database provides free public access to corporate information, allowing you to research a public company’s financial information and operations by reviewing the filings the company makes with the SEC.  You can also research information provided by mutual funds (including money market funds), exchange-traded funds (ETFs), and variable annuities.


Where to begin?


In addition to this link, you have two ways of accessing EDGAR from the SEC.gov home page: 

    To search for a public company, type the company’s name or ticker symbol in the search bar at the top of the home page. 

    To search for a mutual fund, ETF, or variable annuity, click on Company Filings under the search bar at the top of the home page to get to the EDGAR search page.  On the left side, you’ll find tools optimized to search for Mutual Funds and Variable Annuities.  You can use the Mutual Funds tool to also search for ETFs.  You can search for other types of funds as you would search for public companies.

Image showing Search buttons on the page

  

 
Image showing EDGAR Search Tools


Form Types

EDGAR presents search results in chronological order and identifies the filings by form types, shown in the first column of the search results.  For example, the form type for the annual report on Form 10-K filed by domestic public companies is “10-K.”  


Filings with “/A” appended to the form type code indicate an amendment.  For example, the form type “10-K/A” would indicate an amendment to a Form 10-K filing. 


This guide describes where you can find certain types of information in common filings by public companies, mutual funds, and ETFs.  A more comprehensive list of the types of forms filed on EDGAR can be found at this forms list.


Financial Information and Results of Operations

Domestic public companies file annual and quarterly reports, as well as current reports when certain events occur that require prompt disclosure.  The annual and quarterly reports include financial statements for the relevant period.
Form Type 	Description

10-K
	

Annual report – Provides audited annual financial statements, a discussion of material risk factors for the company and its business, and a management’s discussion and analysis of the company’s results of operations for the prior fiscal year.

10-Q
	

Quarterly report – Provides unaudited quarterly financial statements, updates regarding material risks that the company faces, and management’s discussion and analysis of the company’s results of operations for the prior fiscal quarter.

8-K
	

Current report – Discloses material events or information that the company chooses or is required to make public prior to its next scheduled quarterly or annual report.


Some companies are currently filing (and soon all companies will have to file) these disclosure reports with financial information in a structured data format referred to as Inline XBRL—a format that allows a third-party program to read and parse the information.  EDGAR incorporates tools that enable users to take advantage of the information.  See Inline XBRL to learn more. 


Shareholder Meetings

Public companies, mutual funds, and ETFs that are subject to SEC proxy rules send proxy statements to their shareholders to solicit their votes at shareholder meetings.  Proxy statements describe the matters to be voted on at the meeting and may include compensation and other information about the company’s or fund’s board and executive officers.  The proxy statements of domestic public companies, mutual funds, and ETFs subject to SEC proxy rules can be found on EDGAR.
Form Type 	Description

PRE 14A

Preliminary proxy statement – A preliminary proxy statement subject to review by the SEC staff.

DEF 14A

Definitive proxy statement – The final proxy statement sent to the company’s shareholders in connection with the company’s shareholder meeting.


Executive Compensation

Domestic public companies regularly disclose the compensation of their chief executive officer and other highly paid executives, and describe their executive and board compensation policies. 
Form Type 	Description

DEF 14A

Definitive proxy statement – Companies subject to the proxy rules will typically provide detailed compensation disclosure, including a compensation discussion and analysis section, in their annual proxy statement.

10-K
	

Annual report – If the compensation disclosure isn’t found in the proxy statement or the company has not filed a proxy statement, the annual report on Form 10-K should include the disclosure.

8-K
	

Current report – Changes to compensation for certain executive officers requires disclosure under Item 5.02 of this report.  EDGAR search results for reports on Form 8-K show the item numbers included in each report.


Insider Transactions

Corporate insiders—officers, directors, and holders of more than 10 percent of a class of the company’s registered equity securities—must regularly disclose holdings and transactions in all equity securities of that company. 
Form Type 	Description

3
	

Initial statement of beneficial ownership – An initial statement of holdings in the company’s equity securities.

4
	

Statement of changes in beneficial ownership – Disclosure of transactions in the company’s equity securities within two business days of the transaction.

5
	

Annual statement of beneficial ownership – Annual statement of holdings in the company’s equity securities.


Beneficial Ownership Interest

Any person or group of persons that acquires beneficial ownership of more than five percent of a class of a public company’s registered voting securities must disclose their holdings.  In addition, companies regularly disclose who their significant shareholders are and institutional investment managers, such as managers of mutual funds, hedge funds, or pensions, regularly disclose their holdings.
Form Type 	Description

SC 13D

Schedule 13D beneficial ownership report – Filed when a party acquires more than five percent of a class of a company’s registered voting securities; also used to disclose any subsequent changes to their holdings.

SC 13G

Schedule 13G beneficial ownership report – Filed when a party acquires more than five percent of a class of a company’s registered voting securities as a passive investment.

DEF 14A

Definitive proxy statement – Here, companies are required to disclose the amount of equity securities beneficially owned by their directors and officers, and any person or group that beneficially owns more than five percent of any class of the company’s voting securities.

13F-HR
	

Institutional investment manager report – Institutional investment managers disclose their holdings and any changes to them on a quarterly basis.


Business Combinations

Depending on how a merger or acquisition is structured, different types of filings may be required by the companies involved in the transaction.  Common form types filed in connection with a business combination include the following.
Form Type 	Description

PREM14A

Preliminary proxy statement relating to a merger or acquisition – A preliminary proxy statement, which remains subject to review by the SEC staff, filed in connection with a merger or acquisition.

DEFM14A

Definitive proxy statement relating to a merger or acquisition – The final proxy statement sent to the company’s shareholders in connection with a merger or acquisition, which includes a discussion of the terms of and reasons for the transaction.

S-4
	

Registration statement – Filed when the company is registering securities to be used as consideration in the merger or acquisition.  The registration statement often incorporates any proxy statement being sent to shareholders.

425
	

Prospectuses and communications – Written disclosures and communications in connection with a business combination where securities are part of the consideration.

SC TO-T/

SC TO-I

Tender offer statement by third party/issuer – Filed by a party that is offering to buy outstanding shares of a public company from its shareholders.  Often, the disclosure document sent to shareholders is filed as an exhibit to the filing.

SC 14D9

Tender offer solicitation/recommendation statements – A filing required to disclose the target company’s recommendation on the tender offer.

8-K
	

Current report – Certain information about business combinations may be disclosed in a Form 8-K filing, such as the initial signing of a merger agreement or, if an acquisition doesn’t require shareholder approval, information about the company being acquired.


Public Offerings

In order to register an offer and sale of securities to the public with the SEC, a company must file a registration statement.  The first time a company publicly offers and sells its securities is known as its initial public offering.  A prospectus, which often is a large part of the registration statement, is the document given to investors that discloses information about the company and the offering. 
Form Type 	Description

S-1
	

Registration statement – Filed to register the offer and sale of securities to the public often in connection with an initial public offering.

S-3
	

Short-form registration statement – An abbreviated registration statement available to certain already-reporting companies to register the offer and sale of securities to the public.

424B[#]
	

Prospectus – A document disclosing information about the company and the offering that typically comprises a large part of the registration statement.

UPLOAD
	

SEC correspondence – The publicly released written correspondence from the SEC staff to the company during a review process, including a review of a company’s registration statement for its initial public offering.

CORRESP
	

Correspondence – Publicly released correspondence from the company and its advisers to the SEC staff typically during a review process.


Securities-based Crowdfunding

Crowdfunding is a way to raise money from small individual investments or contributions from a large number of people.  Companies that offer and sell securities to the public in reliance on an exemption from registration for securities-based crowdfunding must make filings on EDGAR.
Form Type 	Description

C
	

Offering statement – Disclosure by the company making a crowdfunding offering that contains information about itself and the offering.

C-U
	

Progress updates – Disclosure during the offering about the status of meeting the target offering amount (unless the intermediary provides updates on its online platform) and the final amount of securities sold.

C-AR
	

Annual report – An annual report by the company that includes financial statements.

C-TR
	

Termination of reporting – If eligible, a filing by the company terminating its obligation to file annual reports.


Regulation A Offering

Regulation A allows eligible companies raising $50 million or less in a 12-month period to offer securities to the public with more limited disclosure than what is required in a registered securities offering.  Companies conducting Regulation A offerings are subject to Tier 1 or Tier 2 requirements depending on how much capital they plan to raise in the offering.  Companies conducting Tier 1 offerings do not have ongoing reporting requirements other than filing a final report to disclose the termination or completion of the offering while companies conducting Tier 2 offerings do have ongoing reporting requirements.
Form Type 	Description

1-A
	

Offering statement – This includes the offering circular, the document given to investors that provides important disclosures about the company and the offering.

1-Z
	

Exit report – This details the termination or completion of an offering.  Companies conducting Tier 2 offerings can instead disclose this on Form 1-K.

Ongoing Reporting for Tier 2 Companies

1-K
	

Annual report – An annual report by the company that includes audited financial statements and a discussion of the company’s financial results for the year.

1-SA
	

Semiannual report – This reportincludes unaudited interim financial statements for the first six months of the company’s fiscal year and a discussion of the company’s financial results for the period.

1-U
	

Current report – Filed to disclose certain events including a fundamental change, bankruptcy, change in accountant, non-reliance on prior financial statements or audit report, change in control, and departure of principal officers.


Foreign Private Issuers

Some public companies that are organized or formed outside of the United States, known under federal securities laws as foreign private issuers, may file reports with the SEC on different forms than those that must be filed by U.S. public companies. 
Form Type 	Description

F-1
	

Registration statement – Foreign private issuers may elect to register a securities offering with this filing.

20-F
	

Annual report or registration statement – This filing includes audited financial statements of the foreign private issuer and a discussion of the company’s financial results.  A check box on the cover page indicates whether the filing is for an annual report or to register a class of securities.

6-K
	

Report – Filed in connection with press releases, communications to security holders, and any disclosures required to be made to security holders by the laws of the company’s home country.


Mutual Funds and ETFs

Mutual funds and ETFs make some of the same or similar filings on EDGAR that public companies do.  They also file some different forms, with some filed only by money market funds.  Please note funds may have similar names.  To help ensure you are looking at the correct fund, double check the ticker symbol on the search results page.  In addition to finding these filings on EDGAR, you can typically get them from the fund’s website or your financial professional.

Form Type
	

Description

N-1A/485
	

Registration statement (including a prospectus) – The prospectus includes information about a fund such as investment objectives/goals; a fee table; investment strategies and risks, and performance; advisers and portfolio managers; purchase and sale of fund shares; and tax information.

497K
	

Summary prospectus – Summary disclosure document includes the same key information required in the beginning of the full prospectus.

497
	

Periodic update to fund prospectus – Includes periodic updates to the prospectus.

N-CSR/
N-CSRS
	

Annual/semi-annual shareholder reports – Describes how the fund has operated and includes the fund’s holdings and financial statements.  The annual report also discusses market conditions and investment strategies that significantly affected the fund’s performance during its last fiscal year.

DEF 14A

Definitive proxy statement – Proxy statement sent in connection with matters to be voted on by fund shareholders at the fund’s shareholder meeting.

N-PX
	

Proxy voting record – Identifies specific proposals that the fund was entitled to vote on for its underlying portfolio holdings and how the fund voted on each.

N-PORT
	

Schedule of portfolio holdings in exhibit to N-PORT – Includes a list of the fund’s portfolio holdings for the first and third fiscal quarters, those not reported on Form N-CSR.

N-14
	

Registration statement for fund mergers – Disclosure document includes information about a fund merger or other similar transaction.

 

Variable Annuities

Variable Annuities make some of the same or similar filings on EDGAR that mutual funds and ETFs do.  For the best results, search by the marketing name of the variable annuity contract.  Please note that insurance companies and their contracts may have similar names.  To help ensure you are looking at the correct variable annuity, double check the name of the contract and the name of the insurance company.  In addition to finding these filings on EDGAR, you can typically get them from the insurance company’s website or your financial professional.

Form Type
	

Description

N-4/485
	

Registration statement (including a prospectus) – The prospectus includes information about a variable annuity such as its fees, investment options, and insurance features, like death benefits or income protection.

497
	

Periodic update to variable annuity prospectus – Includes periodic updates to the prospectus.


Exhibits

Exhibits are often required in filings and can include material agreements, organizational documents such as company bylaws, financial statements and presentations. 


A list of exhibits can be found near the end of the filing in the exhibit index, and public companies are now required to include a hyperlink to each exhibit listed.  An exhibit may be filed at the same time as the filing or it may have been previously filed.  If it was filed with a prior version of the filing, there often is a notation indicating that the exhibit was previously filed.  If it was filed with a different filing altogether, the exhibit index often notes the exhibit as being incorporated by reference.  The following table illustrates a sample exhibit index.
Form Type 	Description

3.1
	

Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the Company’s registration statement on Form S-1 filed January 2, 2012) – This exhibit can be found in the prior filing referenced.

3.2
	

Amended and Restated Bylaws* – As indicated by the notation, this exhibit was filed in an earlier filed version of the current filing.

10.1
	

Loan Agreement between the Company and Big Bank, dated January 30, 2018 – This exhibit was filed with the current filing.


Ask and Check

Before you engage an investment professional or purchase securities, make sure you research and verify all information. There are several tools available.
I. Investment Advisers and Broker/Dealer

1
	

Investment Adviser Public Disclosure (IAPD), This search tool enables you to check out SEC- and state-registered investment adviser firms and the individuals who work for them. You can find registration status, background information (such as the firm’s business practices, fees, conflicts of interest, and disciplinary history, and an individual’s qualifications and employment history). You can also read a firm’s registration form, called "Form ADV," which has three parts. IAPD will redirect you to BrokerCheck as needed for information on brokers and brokerage firms.

 
	

• 
	

Form ADV Part 1 contains information about the adviser's business and whether the adviser has had problems with regulators or clients.

 
	

•
	

Form ADV Part 2, referred to as the “brochure,” which advisers must provide to prospective clients initially and to existing clients annually. The brochure describes, in a narrative format, the adviser’s business practices, fees, conflicts of interest, and disciplinary information.
  	• 	Form ADV Part 3, referred to as the “relationship summary,” which advisers must provide to new clients and existing clients.  The relationship summary tells you about the types of services a firm offers, the fees and costs you will have to pay for those services, the conflicts of interest an adviser may have, the required standard of conduct, any disciplinary history, and key questions to ask your adviser.

2
	

BrokerCheck

, FINRA’s database is a free tool to help you research the professional backgrounds of current and former FINRA-registered brokerage firms and brokers. BrokerCheck will redirect you to IAPD as needed for information on advisory firms and the individuals who work for them. Through BrokerCheck, investors can:

 
	

• 
	

Find background information for individual brokers such as industry exams passed, previous employment, customer disputes, and regulatory or disciplinary events.

 
	

• 
	

Find background information on brokerage firms such as history (including any mergers, acquisitions or name changes), licenses and registrations, arbitration awards, and regulatory or disciplinary events. You can also find the firm’s relationship summary.

3
	

Professional Designations Database

, Before you engage an investment professional, make sure you research—and understand—the professional designations they use.

4
	

State Securities Regulators

, You can obtain additional information on investment professionals from your state securities regulator.

5
	

Securities Investor Protection Corporation

 (SIPC), If you plan to do business with a brokerage firm, you should find out whether the brokerage firm and its clearing firm are members of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC). SIPC works to restore investors’ cash and securities when their brokerage firm fails. SIPC provides limited customer protection if a brokerage firm becomes insolvent. It does not insure against losses attributable to a decline in the market value of your securities. If you've placed your cash or securities in the hands of a non-SIPC member, you may not be eligible for SIPC coverage if the firm goes out of business.
II. Securities

1
	

EDGAR (Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval), The SEC’s database provides free public access to corporate information. The system allows you to research a company’s activities, registration statements, prospectuses, and periodic reports, which include financial statements. It also includes filings for mutual funds, exchange traded funds (ETFs) and variable insurance products.
III. Commodities/Futures

1
	

Background Affiliation Status Information Center

 (BASIC), BASIC is a free tool from the National Futures Association (NFA). BASIC contains Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) registration and NFA membership information and futures-related regulatory and non-regulatory actions contributed by NFA, the CFTC and the U.S. futures exchanges. You can search by NFA ID number, firm name, individual name, or pool name.

2
	

US Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) Disciplinary History

, CFTC disciplinary history is made available as part of the agency's ongoing effort to protect market participants and the public from fraud, manipulation, and abusive practices. CFTC disciplinary history available includes Reparations Sanctions in Effect and Administrative Sanctions in Effect. You can search CFTC disciplinary history by respondent name, other names used by respondent, CFTC docket number, or National Futures Association ID.

3
	

CFTC SmartCheck

, Before you engage an investment professional or purchase commodities, make sure you research and verify all information.
IV. Municipal Bonds

1
	

Electronic Municipal Market Access
 (EMMA), EMMA is a free resource by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB) that makes available copies of official statements and advance refunding documents submitted to the MSRB by broker-dealers and banks that underwrite new issues of municipal securities. In addition, EMMA makes available copies of continuing disclosure documents submitted to the MSRB by municipal issuers and other obligors on municipal securities.
 
 
 
Using EMMA - Researching Municipal Securities and 529 Plans

Using EMMA - Researching Municipal Securities and 529 Plans and ABLE Programs

The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board’s Electronic Municipal Market Access (EMMA®) website

provides free public access to municipal securities documents and data. Get access to:

Information about Specific Municipal Securities

    Official statements

(the prospectus for a municipal bond)
Financial disclosure documents from the issuer of the bond
Other ongoing disclosure documents about events affecting the bondCredit ratings information for rated bondsTrade prices, yields and other data about a bond’s trading historyInformation about 529 savings plans and ABLE programs

Market-Wide Information

    Yield curves and indices from third-party providers

Calendar of municipal securities scheduled to be offeredCalendar of upcoming economic reports and events that may have an impact on the municipal bond marketMarket statistics about overall trading patterns and most active securitiesPolitical contribution disclosuresNote that many issuers maintain websites or webpages specifically for investors in their municipal bonds. Some issuers hyperlink to those webpages from their homepage on EMMA. Learn how to find issuer homepages on EMMA

.

The SEC designated EMMA as the official repository for municipal securities disclosures in 2009. The SEC oversees the MSRB. The MSRB

is a self-regulatory organization whose mission is to protect investors, state and local governments and other municipal entities, and the public interest by promoting a fair and efficient municipal securities market. Neither the SEC nor the MSRB review the disclosure documents prior to their posting on EMMA.

Learn more about how to use EMMA by visiting EMMA Help
. Also, the MSRB welcomes questions about how to locate municipal bond disclosures, including older ones that pre-date EMMA’s launch in 2009. Use their Contact Form. For EMMA updates, sign up for EMMA updates via MSRB communications and follow the MSRB on Twitter (@MSRBNews) and LinkedIn.


How to Read a 10-K

An investor can find a wealth of information in a company’s Form 10-K. Filed annually, the 10-K offers a detailed picture of what the company does, and the risks it faces. It also includes the company’s financial report.

The 10-K includes these sections:

    “Business” describes the company’s main products and services. This is a good place to start to understand the company.
    “Risk Factors” includes information about significant risks that the company faces, generally listed in order of importance.
    “Selected Financial Data” provides certain financial information about the company for the last five years. You can find much more detailed financial information on the past three years in a separate section called, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” gives the company’s view on the business results of the past fiscal year. This section, known as the MD&A for short, allows company management to tell its story in its own words.
    “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” contains the company’s audited financial statements, including the income statement, balance sheets, and statement of cash flows.


How to Read an 8-K
Jan. 26, 2021

A company has just released its quarterly earnings. Another company has auditor news that could raise a red flag, and a third company is filing for bankruptcy. Where can you find more facts? Information about these events and many more are found in a document called a current report on Form 8-K. 

Form 8-K provides investors with current information to enable them to make informed decisions. The types of information required to be disclosed on Form 8-K are generally considered to be “material.” That means that, in general, there is a substantial likelihood that a reasonable investor would consider the information important in making an investment decision. 

Companies typically provide a number of 8-Ks throughout the year, whenever significant corporate events take place that trigger a disclosure. Companies must file 8-Ks promptly, rather than waiting until their next periodic report, such as the quarterly report (on Form 10-Q) or annual report (on Form 10-K). Companies are required to make most 8-K disclosures within four business days of the triggering event and in some cases even earlier. The public can find 8-Ks on the SEC’s EDGAR website.

The rest of this Investor Bulletin highlights a number of 8-K disclosures that investors may find particularly relevant, including some red flags for investors. This Investor Bulletin does not discuss all required 8-K disclosures. 
Highlights of Disclosure Items in Form 8-K 
Item 1.01 – Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement 

This item requires disclosure of certain material agreements not made in the ordinary course of business, or material amendments to those agreements. For example, if a company takes out a five-year loan with a bank or signs a long-term lease, and the loan or lease is material to the company, the agreement must be reported here. But if a retailer already has a chain of stores and signs a lease for one more, the new lease generally would be in the ordinary course of business and would not be reported here. 
Item 1.02 – Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement 

Under this item, a company generally must disclose the termination of a material agreement. If the agreement simply expires according to its terms, that termination would not need to be reported on Form 8-K. For example, if a widget company made most of its sales under a long-term supply agreement with one significant customer, and that customer terminates the agreement prior to the date on which it would otherwise expire, that event would need to be reported under this item.Item
1.03 – Bankruptcy or Receivership

If a company becomes the subject of a bankruptcy or receivership court filing, that must be disclosed. Future 8-Ks may outline the company’s plan for reorganization (under Chapter 11) or liquidation (under Chapter 7) and the court’s confirmation of the plan. Investors should look at the reorganization plan for information about whether the company’s common stock is likely to be canceled and when the company expects to emerge from bankruptcy.
2.01 – Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets

If a company acquires or disposes of a significant amount of assets, the company must file an 8-K to describe the terms of the transaction. Examples include buying or merging with another company, or selling a business unit. A company that is no longer a “shell company” as a result of a merger would also use this item to provide investors with comprehensive information about the other merging company. A shell company is a company that either has little or no operations or has little or no assets other than cash and cash equivalents.
Item 2.02 – Results of Operations and Financial Condition

Many companies announce their quarterly and annual results simultaneously in a press release and an 8-K (which includes the press release as an exhibit). The documents often include an announcement that the company will hold a conference call (sometimes called an analyst or earnings call) shortly after the release to discuss the results. The financial disclosures in the 8-K typically summarize the full financial statements, which will appear later in the company’s quarterly report (on Form 10-Q) or annual report (on Form 10-K). 
Item 2.03 – Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant

The basic terms of material financial obligations that the company takes on must be reported. These financial obligations include any long-term debt, capital or operating lease, and short-term debt outside the ordinary course of business. This item also requires disclosure of material financial obligations, whether direct or contingent, that arise out of off-balance sheet arrangements.
Item 2.04 – Triggering Events That Accelerate or Increase a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement

Defaults on loans or other events that trigger the acceleration or increase of a financial obligation must be disclosed in an 8-K if the consequences of the event are material to the company. For example, if a company defaults on a loan, its creditors typically have the right to demand immediate payment of the entire amount owed. In such a case, if immediate repayment would be material, the company must disclose the amount to be repaid, the repayment terms and other financial obligations that might have to be repaid on an accelerated basis as a result of the initial default. Cross-default provisions may allow other creditors to demand immediate repayment of amounts owed to them.
Item 2.05 – Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities

This item requires disclosure of restructuring plans under which the company will incur material charges. For example, the 8-K may report the company’s decision to close some of its plants or stores or to lay off workers. The company also must disclose its estimates of the costs involved, once it is able to determine them. These costs could include, for example, total severance benefits for all laid-off employees.
Item 2.06 – Material Impairments

A company must disclose certain material write-downs (also called impairments) in an 8-K. (If the company determines the impairment when routinely preparing its financial statements for its periodic report, the company may make the disclosure in the periodic report rather than in an 8-K.) A write-down may occur when a company significantly lowers its estimate of the value of certain assets, such as the value of its brand or of a business it has acquired. The write-down hits the financial statements in two places—as a decrease in assets on the balance sheet and as an expense on the income statement.
Item 3.01 – Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing

If a stock exchange notifies a company that it no longer satisfies the requirements for continued listing, this must be disclosed. For example, the stock may have been trading below the minimum price requirement for a certain period of time. The company may have a grace period to return to compliance, and will have to disclose any steps it intends to take to avoid delisting.
Item 3.02 – Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities

Private sales of securities exceeding 1 percent of a company’s outstanding shares of that class (or 5 percent for smaller reporting companies) would be reported under this item. Public offerings registered with the SEC need not be disclosed under this item. Investors can use the information provided under this item to determine the amount of capital raised by the company as well as the potential dilutive effect of reported private sales.
Item 3.03 – Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders

Under this item, companies must disclose material changes to instruments that define the rights of shareholders (such as a company’s governing documents) or material limitations on the rights of security holders that result from the issuance or modification of another class of securities. Examples of such changes could include loan terms restricting dividend payments, the adoption of an antitakeover device or the issuance of preferred stock.
Item 4.01 – Changes in Registrant’s Certifying Accountant

Companies must disclose if they dismiss their independent auditor, if the auditor resigns or declines to stand for re-appointment, and if the company hires a new auditor. 

A change of auditors is sometimes, but not always, a cause for concern. It depends on the reasons for the change. The following circumstances are widely seen as red flags, and companies must disclose them if they occurred over the previous two fiscal years. 

First, companies must disclose whether the departing auditor gave an adverse or qualified opinion on the company’s financial statements. These indicate that the financial statements are not prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. 

Second, the company must report certain disagreements it had with its departing auditor over accounting principles or practices, financial statements, or the scope or procedure of the audit. 

Third, whether or not it led to a disagreement between the company and its auditor, companies must disclose whether its former auditor advised it that:

    the necessary internal controls to prepare reliable financial statements do not exist,
    the auditor can no longer rely on management’s representations or is unwilling to be associated with the financial statements prepared by management,
    the auditor believed it should further investigate a matter or significantly expand the scope of its audit, and the auditor did not do so, or
    the auditor has found new information that materially impacts the fairness or reliability of current or prior financial statements, and the issue has not been resolved to the auditor’s satisfaction.

Item 4.02 – Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review

This item requires disclosure if the company believes that previously issued financial statements should not be relied upon because of an error in the statements. Disclosure is also required if the auditor believes that its previously issued audit reports or interim reviews on financial statements should not be relied upon. In both cases, the company also must disclose whether its audit committee, full board or authorized executive officers have discussed these matters with its auditor. 

Investors should pay attention to these disclosures, which could affect the company’s previously reported earnings. Companies generally restate their financial statements after the 8-K disclosure. The restatement could come at a much later date.
Item 5.01 – Changes in Control of Registrant

If there is a change of control of the company, the company must identify the persons who have acquired control and the percentage of voting securities that they beneficially own, as well as any arrangements between the old and new control groups regarding the election of directors or other matters.
Item 5.02 – Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers

If a board member resigns or refuses to stand for re-election because of a disagreement with the company relating to the company’s operations, policies or practices, or a director is removed for cause from the board, the company must briefly describe the circumstances of the disagreement. If the director provides a letter regarding her resignation, refusal or removal, the company must file the letter as an exhibit to the 8-K. 

If a high-level executive officer—such as the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer, chief accounting officer or chief operating officer—retires, resigns or is terminated, the company must disclose that fact. 

The company also must disclose the appointment of any new director or high-level officers and briefly describe any related compensation arrangements. In addition, the company must disclose any changes to the compensation of current high-level officers.
Item 5.03 – Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year

This item generally requires disclosure if a company amends its articles of incorporation or bylaws, or changes its fiscal year, unless the company already disclosed the proposed amendment or fiscal year change in a proxy statement or information statement. Companies that issue only debt securities are typically not required to comply with this item.
Item 5.05 – Amendments to the Registrant’s Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics

Companies must generally report changes to their code of ethics that apply to the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief accounting officer or controller, or others performing similar functions. The company also must disclose any waivers granted to any of these persons. Many investors consider ethics waivers to be a red flag. Please note that a company may elect to provide these disclosures on the company’s website instead of filing an 8-K.
Item 5.07 – Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

Within four business days of the end of an annual or special meeting, companies must file the results of shareholder votes in director elections and on all other matters put to a vote. If the company is only able to report preliminary results at that time, it must file an amended 8-K to report the final vote results within four business days after those results are known.
Item 7.01 – Regulation FD

The purpose of Regulation FD—for “fair disclosure”—is to prevent companies from selectively disclosing material, non-public information. Regulation FD is intended to level the playing field: companies generally must give material information to the public at the same time they provide it to others, such as securities market professionals. 

Companies may submit an 8-K under this item or Item 8.01 as one method of complying with the public disclosure requirement of Regulation FD. Actual examples of 8-Ks filed under this item address a wide range of topics, such as announcements of dividends, quarterly sales figures, or other business developments.
Item 8.01 – Other Events

This is the place where companies may report anything that they believe is important but is not specifically required elsewhere in the 8-K.
Item 9.01 – Financial Statements and Exhibits

Under this item, a company must file certain financial statements and list the exhibits that it has filed as part of the 8-K. For example, if a company discloses in Item 2.01 that it has acquired a business, Item 9.01 would require the company to provide the financial statements of the business acquired in the same or a later-filed amended 8-K. In addition, the company must also present “pro forma” financial statements that show what the company’s financial results might have been if the transaction had been completed earlier. Likewise, if the company discloses in Item 1.01 that it has entered into a material agreement, that agreement may be filed as an exhibit in the 8-K. 

Updated Investor Bulletin: Insider Transactions and Forms 3, 4, and 5
Jan. 26, 2021

The SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Advocacy is issuing this Investor Bulletin to help educate investors about SEC Forms 3, 4, and 5.

The federal securities laws require certain individuals (such as officers, directors, and those that hold more than 10% of any class of a company’s securities, together we’ll call, “insiders”) to report purchases, sales, and holdings of their company’s securities by filing Forms 3, 4, and 5.
Codes
Following is a description of some commonly used “transaction codes.” For more transaction codes and a more detailed explanation for the various codes, please see the General Instructions to Form 4.
Transaction Code 	Transaction
A 	Grant, award, or other acquisition of securities from the company (such as an option)
K 	Equity swaps and similar hedging transactions
P 	Purchase of securities on an exchange or from another person
S 	 Sale of securities on an exchange or to another person
D 	Sale or transfer of securities back to the company
F 	 Payment of exercise price or tax liability using portion of securities received from the company
M 	Exercise or conversion of derivative security received from the company (such as an option)
G 	Gift of securities by or to the insider
V 	A transaction voluntarily reported on Form 4
J 	Other (accompanied by a footnote describing the transaction)
What’s a Form 3?

When a person becomes an insider (for example, when they are hired as an officer or director), they must file a Form 3 to initially disclose his or her ownership of the company’s securities. Form 3 must be filed within 10 days after the person becomes an insider.
What’s a Form 4?

In most cases, when an insider executes a transaction, he or she must file a Form 4. With this form filing, the public is made aware of the insider’s various transactions in company securities, including the amount purchased or sold and the price per share. Form 4 must be filed within two business days following the transaction date. Transactions in a company’s common stock as well as derivative securities, such as options, warrants, and convertible securities, are reported on the form. Each transaction is coded to indicate the nature of the transaction.
What’s a Form 5?

A Form 5 is generally due to the SEC no later than 45 days after the company’s fiscal year ends and is only required from an insider when at least one transaction, because of an exemption or failure to earlier report, was not reported during the year. For example, some transactions, such as certain purchases by an insider of less than $10,000 in a six-month period, don’t have to be reported on Form 4 when they occur but do have to be reported on Form 5. The Form 5 filing doesn’t have to disclose transactions that have been previously reported. When reporting transactions on Form 5, insiders use the same transaction codes as when reporting on Form 4.
What can investors do?

Before investing, investors may wish to research insider ownership to consider the extent of insiders’ economic stake in the success of the company, as reflected both in outright ownership and transactions (such as equity swaps) that may hedge the economic risk of that ownership. Many investors believe that reports of insiders’ purchases and sales of company securities can provide useful information as to insiders’ views of the performance or prospects of the company. Of course, insiders may sell company securities for any number of reasons, including for liquidity and diversification purposes. Forms 3, 4, and 5 are publicly available through the SEC’s EDGAR website.






